
# AddIns Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [AddIn](ad26800d-5342-fb4c-01f3-05b7eceb7ffd.md)** objects that represents all the add-ins available to Microsoft Excel, regardless of whether they're installed.

## Remarks

This list corresponds to the list of add-ins displayed in the  **Add-Ins** dialog box.


## Example

Use the  ** [AddIns](2feb430b-a65d-6298-b3b6-bb4eb3c2b373.md)** property to return the **AddIns** collection. The following example creates a list that contains the names and installed states of all the available add-ins.


```
Sub DisplayAddIns() 
 Worksheets("Sheet1").Activate 
 rw = 1 
 For Each ad In Application.AddIns 
 Worksheets("Sheet1").Cells(rw, 1) = ad.Name 
 Worksheets("Sheet1").Cells(rw, 2) = ad.Installed 
 rw = rw + 1 
 Next 
End Sub
```

Use the  ** [Add](7e4f100d-6ea1-94e4-83d3-fda63a7815e1.md)** method to add an add-in to the list of available add-ins. The **Add** method adds an add-in to the list but doesn't install the add-in. Set the [Installed](f8e6e45a-9f6c-2156-dd6f-d3f8e221c282.md) property of the add-in to **True** to install the add-in. To install an add-in that doesn't appear in the list of available add-ins, you must first use the **Add** method and then set the **Installed** property. This can be done in a single step, as shown in the following example (note that you use the name of the add-in, not its title, with the **Add** method).




```
AddIns.Add("generic.xll").Installed = True
```

Use  **AddIns**( _index_) where  _index_ is the add-in title or index number to return a single **AddIn** object. The following example installs the Analysis Toolpak add-in.

Don't confuse the add-in title, which appears in the  **Add-Ins** dialog box, with the add-in name, which is the file name of the add-in. You must spell the add-in title exactly as it's spelled in the **Add-Ins** dialog box, but the capitalization doesn't have to match.




```
AddIns("analysis toolpak").Installed = True
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [AddIns Object Members](dce6ebab-999b-4994-8797-007d5eeea092.md)
