
# Using the Solver VBA Functions

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Before you can use the Solver VBA functions from VBA, you must enable the Solver add-in in the  **Excel Options** dialog box.

1. Click the  **File** tab, and then click **Options** below the **Excel** tab.
    
2. In the  **Excel Options** dialog box, click **Add-Ins**.
    
3. In the  **Manage** drop-down box, select **Excel Add-ins**, and then click  **Go**.
    
4. In the  **Add-Ins** dialog box, select **Solver Add-in**, and then click OK.
    
After you have enabled the Solver add-in, Excel will auto-install the Add-in if it is not already installed, and the  **Solver** command will be added to the **Analysis** group on the **Data** tab in the ribbon.
Before you can use the Solver VBA functions in the Visual Basic Editor, you must establish a reference to the Solver add-in. In the Visual Basic Editor, with a module active, click  **References** on the **Tools** menu, and then select **Solver** under **Available References**. If  **Solver** does not appear under **Available References**, click  **Browse**, and then open Solver.xlam in the \Program Files\Microsoft Office\Office14\Library\SOLVER subfolder.
The following functions can be used to control the Solver add-in from VBA. Each function corresponds to an action that you can perform interactively, through the  **Solver Parameters**,  **Solver Options**, and  **Solver Results** dialog boxes of the Solver add-in.

-  [SolverAdd Function](c20e0a78-113e-254f-428f-0dc1bdc817c2.md)
    
-  [SolverChange Function](773c68cc-5d37-b8ff-c895-61fca75da5c1.md)
    
-  [SolverDelete Function](08d285ef-7c11-2429-3d91-61c75c515c72.md)
    
-  [SolverFinish Function](8657931a-a618-bc90-d850-6d37707e0a68.md)
    
-  [SolverFinishDialog Function](74af1115-f028-37ee-823b-45b5653065a4.md)
    
-  [SolverGet Function](3daf519c-06be-b200-7615-926e30fd2474.md)
    
-  [SolverLoad Function](01d02d97-f2cd-ba89-bfc0-50eab1ffce2f.md)
    
-  [SolverOk Function](d24a6a7b-e4d9-e315-d0a6-8b7c80a38ede.md)
    
-  [SolverOkDialog Function](b16cad05-2213-ab11-ee9f-c3e09fe7f973.md)
    
-  [SolverOptions Function](270d5440-ac1e-2436-b632-5877ede0820e.md)
    
-  [SolverReset Function](5c8f99e7-9451-3e72-1d93-4fcd72fc3e71.md)
    
-  [SolverSave Function](177dcfb7-b223-c172-d4d6-9cab534a8fa5.md)
    
-  [SolverSolve Function](40ef53c8-ff54-bdc8-9f8b-bf9a4445ce51.md)
    
