
# QueryTable.TextFilePromptOnRefresh Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** if you want to specify the name of the imported text file each time the query table is refreshed. The **Import Text File** dialog box allows you to specify the path and file name. The default value is **False**. Read/write  **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **TextFilePromptOnRefresh**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **QueryTable** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use this property only when your query table is based on data from a text file (with the  ** [QueryType](7cf9ea40-62ea-7211-7832-31eceb44ed15.md)**property set to  **xlTextImport**).

If the value of this property is  **True**, the dialog box doesn't appear the first time a query table is refreshed.

The default value is  **True** in the user interface.

If you import data using the user interface, data from a Web query or a text query is imported as a  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)** object, while all other external data is imported as a ** [ListObject](46de6c4f-8ce0-0c7d-da59-6e52f5eab612.md)** object.

If you import data using the object model, data from a Web query or a text query must be imported as a  **QueryTable**, while all other external data can be imported as either a  **ListObject** or a **QueryTable**.

The  **TextFilePromptOnRefresh** property applies only to **QueryTable** objects.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example prompts the user for the name of the text file whenever the query table on the first worksheet in the first workbook is refreshed.


```
Set shFirstQtr = Workbooks(1).Worksheets(1) 
Set qtQtrResults = shFirstQtr.QueryTables _ 
 .Add(Connection := "TEXT;C:\My Documents\19980331.txt", _ 
 Destination := shFirstQtr.Cells(1,1)) 
With qtQtrResults 
 .TextFileParseType = xlDelimited 
 .TextFilePromptOnRefresh = True 
 .TextFileTabDelimiter = True 
 .Refresh 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
