
# QueryTable.EditWebPage Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets the web page Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for a web query. Read/write  **Variant**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **EditWebPage**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **QueryTable** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **EditWebPage** property returns **null** if not set. The **EditWebPage** property is only meaningful if the query type is Web or OLE.

If the  **EditWebPage** is not null then ignore the ** [WebTables](d60eb457-6276-2d86-bbd8-c2050b0695c9.md)** property for refreshing. As a result an XML query and the ** [WebTable](d60eb457-6276-2d86-bbd8-c2050b0695c9.md)** property refers to the table in the original Web page and should only be used in the edit case to pre-populate the **Web Query** dialog box.

If you import data using the user interface, data from a Web query or a text query is imported as a  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)** object, while all other external data is imported as a ** [ListObject](46de6c4f-8ce0-0c7d-da59-6e52f5eab612.md)** object.

If you import data using the object model, data from a Web query or a text query must be imported as a  **QueryTable**, while all other external data can be imported as either a  **ListObject** or a **QueryTable**.

The  **EditWebPage** property applies only to **QueryTable** objects.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

In this example, Microsoft Excel displays to the user a Web page URL. This example assumes a  **QueryTable** object in cell A1 exists in the active worksheet and that a file called "MyHomepage.htm" exists on the C: drive.


```
Sub ReturnURL() 
 
 ' Set the EditWebPage property to a source. 
 Range("A1").QueryTable.EditWebPage = "C:\MyHomepage.htm" 
 
 ' Display the source to the user. 
 MsgBox Range("A1").QueryTable.EditWebPage 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
