
# QueryTable.WebPreFormattedTextToColumns Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets whether data contained within HTML <PRE> tags in the Web page is parsed into columns when you import the page into a query table. The default is  **True**. Read/write  **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **WebPreFormattedTextToColumns**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **QueryTable** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This property is used only when the  ** [QueryType](7cf9ea40-62ea-7211-7832-31eceb44ed15.md)**property of the query table is  **xlWebQuery** and the query returns a HTML document.

If you import data using the user interface, data from a Web query or a text query is imported as a  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)** object, while all other external data is imported as a ** [ListObject](46de6c4f-8ce0-0c7d-da59-6e52f5eab612.md)** object.

If you import data using the object model, data from a Web query or a text query must be imported as a  **QueryTable**, while all other external data can be imported as either a  **ListObject** or a **QueryTable**.

The  **WebPreFormattedTextToColumns** property applies only to **QueryTable** objects.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example adds a new Web query table to the first worksheet in the first workbook. Note that the example doesn't parse into columns any data located between the HTML <PRE> tags.


```
Set shFirstQtr = Workbooks(1).Worksheets(1) 
Set qtQtrResults = shFirstQtr.QueryTables _ 
 .Add(Connection := "URL;http://datasvr/98q1/19980331.htm", _ 
 Destination := shFirstQtr.Cells(1,1)) 
With qtQtrResults 
 .WebFormatting = xlNone 
 .WebPreFormattedTextToColumns = False 
 .Refresh 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
