
# QueryTable.CommandText Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets the command string for the specified data source. Read/write  **Variant**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **CommandText**

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **QueryTable** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

For OLE DB sources, the  ** [CommandType](bbe0ba26-efb9-428d-de2c-576116d92747.md)**property describes the value of the  **CommandText** property.

For ODBC sources, setting the  **CommandText** causes the data to be refreshed.

If you import data using the user interface, data from a Web query or a text query is imported as a  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)** object, while all other external data is imported as a ** [ListObject](46de6c4f-8ce0-0c7d-da59-6e52f5eab612.md)** object.

If you import data using the object model, data from a Web query or a text query must be imported as a  **QueryTable**, while all other external data can be imported as either a  **ListObject** or a **QueryTable**.

You can use the  ** [QueryTable](fe019d61-654a-9c87-0bf4-30590a1274ca.md)** property of the **ListObject** to access the **CommandText** property.

The sheet that contains the query table must be active to access this property.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example sets the command string for the first query table's ODBC data source. Note that the command string is an SQL statement.


```
Set qtQtrResults = _ 
 Workbooks(1).Worksheets(1).QueryTables(1) 
With qtQtrResults 
 .CommandType = xlCmdSQL 
 .CommandText = _ 
 "Select ProductID From Products Where ProductID < 10" 
 .Refresh 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
