
# ChartObjects Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of all the  ** [ChartObject](b546e6f2-7ac6-2dea-eba2-f98f68f3df65.md)** objects on the specified chart sheet, dialog sheet, or worksheet.

## Remarks

Each  **ChartObject** object represents an embedded chart. The **ChartObject** object acts as a container for a ** [Chart](179c32ce-49bd-6f36-ea12-89fb5443f3ea.md)** object. Properties and methods for the **ChartObject** object control the appearance and size of the embedded chart on the sheet. **ChartObjects** collection


## Example

Use the  ** [ChartObjects](234cab0e-a8a2-2174-8881-39b5fb37c743.md)** method to return the **ChartObjects** collection. The following example deletes all the embedded charts on the worksheet named "Sheet1."


```
Worksheets("sheet1").ChartObjects.Delete
```

You cannot use the  **ChartObjects** collection to call the following properties and methods:


-  **Locked** property
    
-  **Placement** property
    
-  **PrintObject** property
    


Unlike in previous version, the  **ChartObjects** collection can now read the properties for height, width, left and top.

Use the  ** [Add](46f28b34-83a5-b3d9-c19b-a1dc8e05dff7.md)** method to create a new, empty embedded chart and add it to the collection. Use the ** [ChartWizard](c47588d9-6969-d6bb-cbbc-4941198d78b4.md)** method to add data and format the new chart. The following example creates a new embedded chart and then adds the data from cells A1:A20 as a line chart.




```
Dim ch As ChartObject 
Set ch = Worksheets("sheet1").ChartObjects.Add(100, 30, 400, 250) 
ch.Chart.ChartWizard source:=Worksheets("sheet1").Range("a1:a20"), _ 
 gallery:=xlLine, title:="New Chart"
```

Use  **ChartObjects**( _index_), where  _index_ is the embedded chart index number or name, to return a single object. The following example sets the pattern for the chart area in embedded Chart 1 on the worksheet named "Sheet1."




```
Worksheets("Sheet1").ChartObjects(1).Chart. _ 
 CChartObjecthartArea.Format.Fill.Pattern = msoPatternLightDownwardDiagonal 
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [ChartObjects Object Members](9b6cdfd7-0926-fff0-ecc1-ce1cef00ebee.md)
