
# Dialog.Show Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Displays the built-in dialog box, waits for the user to input data and returns a  **Boolean** value that represents the user's response.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Show**( **_Arg1_**,  **_Arg2_**,  **_Arg3_**,  **_Arg4_**,  **_Arg5_**,  **_Arg6_**,  **_Arg7_**,  **_Arg8_**,  **_Arg9_**,  **_Arg10_**,  **_Arg11_**,  **_Arg12_**,  **_Arg13_**,  **_Arg14_**,  **_Arg15_**,  **_Arg16_**,  **_Arg17_**,  **_Arg18_**,  **_Arg19_**,  **_Arg20_**,  **_Arg21_**,  **_Arg22_**,  **_Arg23_**,  **_Arg24_**,  **_Arg25_**,  **_Arg26_**,  **_Arg27_**,  **_Arg28_**,  **_Arg29_**,  **_Arg30_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Dialog** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Arg1-Arg30|Optional| **Variant**|For built-in dialog boxes only, the initial arguments for the command. For more information, see the "Remarks" section.|

### Return Value

A Boolean value that, for built-in dialog boxes, returns  **True** if the user clicks OK, or it returns **False** if the user clicks Cancel.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

For built in dialog boxes, this method returns  **True** if the user clicks **OK**, or it returns  **False** if the user clicks **Cancel**.

You can use a single dialog box to change many properties at the same time. For example, you can use the Format Cells dialog box to change all the properties of the  ** [Font](f4788ba4-1c4c-2f03-4d73-194bc9316825.md)** object.

For some built-in dialog boxes (the  **Open** dialog box, for example), you can set initial values usingarg1, arg2, ..., arg30. To find the arguments to set, locate the corresponding dialog box constant in  **Built-In Dialog Box Argument Lists**. For example, search for the  **xlDialogOpen** constant to find the arguments for the **Open** dialog box. For more information about built-in dialog boxes, see the **Dialogs** collection.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example displays the  **Open** dialog box.


```
Application.Dialogs(xlDialogOpen).Show
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Dialog Object](adabcd3b-fc48-d314-3ae5-f1b2ba148383.md)
#### Other resources


 [Dialog Object Members](a9994c51-46e5-80d2-f54e-223d4cee5212.md)
