
# Cells and Ranges

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

This topic links to programming tasks (how-to and walkthrough topics) for common cells and ranges scenarios. 

"How Do I ..." is your gateway to key task-based topics about programming and application development using Excel. The links provide pointers to important, procedure-based help topics. 


## Cells and Ranges


-  [Create an HTML File with a Table of Contents based on Cell Data](06cc875a-22dc-4d83-86e3-99fa142f2426.md)
    
      - Describes how to take data from a worksheet and create a table of contents in an HTML file.
    
-  [Delete Duplicate Entries in a Range](22ca07fd-1f69-409a-85e1-247740d87e8e.md)
    
      - Describes how to delete duplicate entries in a range.
    
-  [Fill a Value Down into Blank Cells in a Column](3d92a4c3-b2fa-4f7c-be97-2ffbf2f2bb06.md)
    
      - Describes how to fill a value down into blank cells.
    
-  [Hide and Unhide Columns](fbfd24bb-9862-4895-9ac4-3e4f92197ede.md)
    
      - Describes how to find all the cells that contain a certain value and hide or unhide the columns that contain that value.
    
-  [Highlight the Active Cell, Row, or Column](51a30ffb-77f2-4bd7-8eb6-b6781dc55d43.md)
    
      - Describes how to highlight the active cell, or column with a color.
    
-  [Make a Cell Blink](0494fc11-b3d5-4462-aa57-31756cd5a2e7.md)
    
      - Describes how to make a cell blink by changing the color of the cell.
    
-  [Prevent Duplicate Entries in a Range](5d5701a1-a2d2-438b-b420-f5436529bc0e.md)
    
      - Describes how to prevent duplicate entries of a value in a given range.
    
-  [How to: Reference Cells and Ranges](a16caa8d-21c9-ff33-347b-ce671248a92d.md)
    
      - Describes how to reference cells and ranges in order to do enter formulas or change formats.
    
-  [How to: Refer to All the Cells on the Worksheet](fbed1840-e9eb-a7a0-f780-f98939e9bac6.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to all cells on a worksheet.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Cells and Ranges by Using A1 Notation](c98741c5-465e-137f-872d-185a20068d4a.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to cells and ranges by using A1 notation.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Cells by Using a Range Object](89c2d61d-823a-9376-d827-2ec5ae200d80.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to cells by using a  **Range** object.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Cells by Using Index Numbers](5671563b-9a20-3124-58d9-cfa02fac5312.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to cells by using index numbers.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Cells by Using Shortcut Notation](32426c8d-a2f6-dae5-7507-ff19582fa170.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to cells by using shortcut notation.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Cells Relative to Other Cells](fbdcddea-917c-1813-57a5-21df1c8102de.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to cells relative to other cells.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Multiple Ranges](11ac8eec-c754-d4e9-373c-84f04355d198.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to multiple ranges.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Named Ranges](74119715-2208-b932-f47c-7fad334c3fc6.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to named ranges.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Rows and Columns](a03acade-9e40-6a26-6a48-2d7a76d0f722.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to rows and columns in Excel.
    
-  [Select a Range](4ec2e533-74b3-448d-90aa-1e2a624490b8.md)
    
      - Describes how to select the used range and the data range on a worksheet.
    
