
# WorksheetFunction.Rank_Eq Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns the rank of a number in a list of numbers. The rank of a number is its size relative to other values in a list. (If you were to sort the list, the rank of the number would be its position.)

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Rank_Eq**( **_Arg1_**,  **_Arg2_**,  **_Arg3_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [WorksheetFunction](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Arg1|Required| **Double**|Number - The number whose rank you want to find.|
|Arg2|Required| **Range**|Ref - An array of, or a reference to, a list of numbers. Non-numeric values in reference are ignored.|
|Arg3|Optional| **Variant**|Order - A number that specifies how to rank the number.|

### Return Value

Double


## Remarks




- If the order is 0 (zero) or omitted, Microsoft Excel ranks the number as if the reference was a list sorted in descending order.
    
- If the order is any non-zero value, Microsoft Excel ranks the number as if the reference was a list sorted in ascending order.
    

- RANK_EQ gives duplicate numbers the same rank. However, the presence of duplicate numbers affects the ranks of subsequent numbers. For example, in a list of integers sorted in ascending order, if the number 10 appears twice and has a rank of 5, then 11 would have a rank of 7 (no number would have a rank of 6). 
    
- For some purposes you might want to use a definition of rank that takes ties into account. In the previous example, you would want a revised rank of 5.5 for the number 10. To do this, add the following correction factor to the value returned by RANK_EQ. This correction factor is appropriate both for the case where rank is computed in descending order (order = 0 or omitted) or ascending order (order = nonzero value). Correction factor for tied ranks=[COUNT(ref) + 1 - RANK_EQ(number, ref, 0) - RANK_EQ(number, ref, 1)]/2. In the following example, RANK_EQ(A2,A1:A5,1) equals 3. The correction factor is (5 + 1 - 2 - 3)/2 = 0.5 and the revised rank that takes ties into account is 3 + 0.5 = 3.5. If number occurs only once in ref, the correction factor will be 0, since RANK_EQ would not have to be adjusted for a tie. 
    

## See also


#### Concepts


 [WorksheetFunction Object](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)
#### Other resources


 [WorksheetFunction Object Members](6811ca87-4b53-0bff-88c9-30bf7497879a.md)
