
# QueryTable.TextFileThousandsSeparator Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets the thousands separator character thatMicrosoft Excel uses when you import a text file into a query table. The default is the system thousands separator character. Read/write  **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **TextFileThousandsSeparator**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **QueryTable** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use this property only when your query table is based on data from a text file (with the  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)**property set to  **xlTextImport**), especially when the file contains decimal and thousands separators that are different from those used on the computer, due to a different language setting being used.

The following table shows the results when you import text into Microsoft Excel using various separators. Numeric results are displayed in the rightmost column.



|**System decimal separator**|**System thousands separator**|**TextFileDecimalSeparator value**|**TextFileThousandsSeparator value**|**Text imported**|**Cell value (data type)**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Period|Comma|Comma|Period|123.123,45|123,123.45 (numeric)|
|Period|Comma|Comma|Comma|123.123,45|123.123,45 (text)|
|Comma|Period|Comma|Period|123,123.45|123,123.45 (numeric)|
|Period|Comma|Period|Comma|123 123.45|123 123.45 (text)|
|Period|Comma|Period|Space|123 123.45|123,123.45 (numeric)|
If you import data using the user interface, data from a Web query or a text query is imported as a  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)** object, while all other external data is imported as a ** [ListObject](46de6c4f-8ce0-0c7d-da59-6e52f5eab612.md)** object.

If you import data using the object model, data from a Web query or a text query must be imported as a  **QueryTable**, while all other external data can be imported as either a  **ListObject** or a **QueryTable**.

The  **TextFileThousandsSeparator** property applies only to **QueryTable** objects.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example saves the original thousands separator and sets it to a period for the first query table on Sheet1, in preparation for importing a French text file (for example) into the U.S. English version of Microsoft Excel.


```
strDecSep = Worksheets("Sheet1").QueryTables(1) _ 
 .TextFileThousandsSeparator 
Worksheets("Sheet1").QueryTables(1) _ 
 .TextFileThousandsSeparator = "."
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
