
# Shape Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents an object in the drawing layer, such as an AutoShape, freeform, OLE object, or picture.

## Remarks

 The **Shape** object is a member of the ** [Shapes](f9c6548c-d028-1b70-a11c-c4b45ff19177.md)** collection. The **Shapes** collection contains all the shapes in a workbook.


 **Note**  There are three objects that represent shapes: the  **Shapes** collection, which represents all the shapes on a workbook; the ** [ShapeRange](e1b8229c-73a0-4a77-5e00-4bcec9032260.md)** collection, which represents a specified subset of the shapes on a workbook (for example, a **ShapeRange** object could represent shapes one and four in the workbook, or it could represent all the selected shapes in the workbook); and the **Shape** object, which represents a single shape on a worksheet. If you want to work with several shapes at the same time or with shapes within the selection, use a **ShapeRange** collection.


### Using the Shape Object

The following sections describes how to:


- Return the shapes attached to the ends of a connector.
    
- Return a newly created freeform.
    
- Return a single shape from within a group.
    
- Return a newly formed group of shapes.
    
- Return an existing shape.
    
- Return a shape within the selection.
    

### Returning the Shapes Attached to the Ends of a Connector

To return a  **Shape** object that represents one of the shapes attached by a connector, use the ** [BeginConnectedShape](9ff6c949-72c7-32e9-d1dc-6a0a3b861135.md)**or  ** [EndConnectedShape](e13d9b94-aa51-5895-8ad4-c40ba7397331.md)** property.


### Returning a newly created freeform

Use the  ** [BuildFreeform](0eec4b87-1a40-1e60-a66a-a8bb2b2f7efa.md)**and  ** [AddNodes](8fff188d-1c47-87f0-8388-2b12534e82c2.md)** methods to define the geometry of a new freeform, and use the ** [ConvertToShape](2084277d-7e6a-5675-8e46-17522c3228eb.md)** method to create the freeform and return the **Shape** object that represents it.


### Returning a Single Shape from Within a Group

Use  ** [GroupItems](4b065113-df60-7348-a2da-898aece10f01.md)**( _index_), where  _index_ is the shape name or the index number within the group, to return a **Shape** object that represents a single shape in a grouped shape.


### Returning a Newly Formed Group of Shapes

Use the  ** [Group](f0ad9b81-42ad-0ee6-d2e2-ff2a88d47a97.md)**or  ** [Regroup](d30d3064-c37e-84b0-10a6-11dcd18c593e.md)** method to group a range of shapes and return a single **Shape** object that represents the newly formed group. After a group has been formed, you can work with the group the same way you work with any other shape.


### Returning an Existing Shape

Use  ** [Shapes](6206b5e8-742d-797f-12ee-daf3225a53dc.md)**( _index_), where  _index_ is the shape name or the index number, to return a **Shape** object that represents a shape.


### Returning a Shape Within the Selection

Use  `Selection.ShapeRange`( _index_), where  _index_ is the shape name or the index number, to return a **Shape** object that represents a shape within the selection.


## Example

The following example horizontally flips shape one and the shape named Rectangle 1 on  _myDocument_.


```
Set myDocument = Worksheets(1) 
myDocument.Shapes(1).Flip msoFlipHorizontal 
myDocument.Shapes("Rectangle 1").Flip msoFlipHorizontal
```

Each shape is assigned a default name when you add it to the  **Shapes** collection. To give the shape a more meaningful name, use the **Name** property. The following example adds a rectangle to myDocument, gives it the name Red Square, and then sets its foreground color and line style.




```
Set myDocument = Worksheets(1) 
With myDocument.Shapes.AddShape(msoShapeRectangle, _ 
 144, 144, 72, 72) 
 .Name = "Red Square" 
 .Fill.ForeColor.RGB = RGB(255, 0, 0) 
 .Line.DashStyle = msoLineDashDot 
End With
```

The following example sets the fill for the first shape in the selection in the active window, assuming that there's at least one shape in the selection.




```
ActiveWindow.Selection.ShapeRange(1).Fill.ForeColor.RGB = _ 
 RGB(255, 0, 0)
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [Shape Object Members](0fed7136-4228-6c32-507d-3bd36aa56d9a.md)
