
# WebOptions.OrganizeInFolder Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** if all supporting files, such as background textures and graphics, are organized in a separate folder when you save the specified document as a Web page. **False** if supporting files are saved in the same folder as the Web page. The default value is **True**. Read/write  **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **OrganizeInFolder**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **WebOptions** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The new folder is created in the folder where you have saved the Web page, and is named after the document. If long file names are used, a suffix is added to the folder name. The  ** [FolderSuffix](5361e4db-4f08-ab6c-1259-d04170879c99.md)**property returns the folder suffix for the language support you have selected or installed, or the default folder suffix.

If you save a document that was previously saved with the  **OrganizeInFolder** property set to a different value, Microsoft Excel automatically moves the supporting files into or out of the folder, as appropriate.

If you don't use long file names (that is, if the  ** [UseLongFileNames](f30c4954-d691-3a36-1540-f280eea370d8.md)**property is set to  **False**), Microsoft Excel automatically saves any supporting files in a separate folder. The files cannot be saved in the same folder as the Web page.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example specifies that all supporting files are saved in the same folder when the document is saved as a Web page.


```
Application.DefaultWebOptions.OrganizeInFolder = False
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [WebOptions Object](d573637f-1891-4602-c961-091795e47356.md)
#### Other resources


 [WebOptions Object Members](4188ab11-5d84-aed8-2a2e-17881dcebe67.md)
