
# Dialog Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a built-in Microsoft Excel dialog box.

## Remarks

 The **Dialog** object is a member of the ** [Dialogs](d1d54f0e-6057-92f5-4f4c-254c51e36040.md)** collection. The **Dialogs** collection contains all the built-in dialog boxes in Microsoft Excel. You cannot create a new built-in dialog box or add one to the collection. The only useful thing you can do with a **Dialog** object is use it with the ** [Show](7c69ecc2-fdd5-c91b-1c66-e3099bd69cb7.md)** method to display the corresponding dialog box.

The Microsoft Excel Visual Basic object library includes built-in constants for many of the built-in dialog boxes. Each constant is formed from the prefix "xlDialog" followed by the name of the dialog box. For example, the  **Apply Names** dialog box constant is **xlDialogApplyNames**, and the  **Find File** dialog box constant is **xlDialogFindFile**. These constants are members of the  ** [XlBuiltinDialog](18f10073-3793-f7e8-4361-72011e60cd4c.md)** enumerated type.


## Example

Use  ** [Dialogs](0d04aa87-9872-23e5-78e3-c9e3da2c8eb5.md)**( _index_), where  _index_ is a built-in constant identifying the dialog box, to return a single **Dialog** object. The following example runs the built-in **Open** dialog box ( **File** menu). The **Show** method returns **True** if Microsoft Excel successfully opens a file; it returns **False** if the user cancels the dialog box.


```
dlgAnswer = Application.Dialogs(xlDialogOpen).Show
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [Dialog Object Members](a9994c51-46e5-80d2-f54e-223d4cee5212.md)
