
# OLEDBConnection.Refresh Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Refreshes an OLE DB connection.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Refresh**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **OLEDBConnection** object.


## Remarks

When making the connection to the OLE DB data source, Microsoft Excel uses the connection string specified by the  ** [Connection](03b83f0e-1a16-f44e-0a89-27742b733e05.md)**property. If the specified connection string is missing required values, dialog boxes will be displayed to prompt the user for the required information. If the  ** [DisplayAlerts](d9f36a99-e9c9-9a67-abaf-9c8e49b4febc.md)**property is  **False**, dialog boxes are not displayed and the  **Refresh** method fails with the Insufficient Connection Information exception.

After Microsoft Excel makes a successful connection, it stores the completed connection string so that prompts will not be displayed for subsequent calls to the  **Refresh** method during the same editing session. You can obtain the completed connection string by examining the value of the ** [Connection](03b83f0e-1a16-f44e-0a89-27742b733e05.md)**property.

After the database connection is made, the SQL query is validated. If the query is not valid, the  **Refresh** method fails with the SQL Syntax Error exception.

The  **Refresh** method returns **True** if the query is successfully completed or started; it returns **False** if the user cancels a connection.

To see whether the number of fetched rows exceeded the number of available rows on the worksheet, examine the  ** [FetchedRowOverflow](386aaf06-27d4-bfa1-cf5e-ac8c8bddef44.md)**property. This property is initialized every time the  **Refresh** method is called.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [OLEDBConnection Object](f246e544-9854-8e71-a7f7-dec57dd725e4.md)
#### Other resources


 [OLEDBConnection Object Members](2f1a2f81-ee3a-1b60-8dc3-87818e1790c1.md)
