
# PivotTable.EnableWriteback Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 Returns or sets whether writing back to the data source is enabled for the specified PivotTable. The default value is **False**. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **EnableWriteback**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [PivotTable](a9c1d4a0-78a9-f9a6-6daf-91cb63e45842.md)** object.


### Return Value

 **Boolean**


## Remarks

For OLAP data sources, setting to the  **EnableWriteback** property to **True** to enables writeback and disables the alert for when the user overwrites values in the data area of the PivotTable. For non-OLAP data sources, setting the **EnableWriteback** property to **True** enables write-back in code, and also allows the user to change data values that previously could not be changed.

The  **EnableWriteback** and ** [EnableDataValueEditing](57b4ed51-46d5-0d9f-d947-cdc45e523095.md)** properties of the ** [PivotTable](a9c1d4a0-78a9-f9a6-6daf-91cb63e45842.md)** object cannot be set to **True** at the same time.

If the  **EnableDataValueEditing** property is set to **True** and then the **EnableWriteback** property is set to **True**, the  **EnableDataValueEditing** property is set to **False** automatically, the PivotTable is refreshed, and any editing performed on data values is lost.

If the  **EnableWriteback** property is set to **True** and then the **EnableDataValueEditing** property is set to **True**, the  **EnableWriteback** property is set to **False** automatically, the PivotTable is not refreshed, and the data source values are restored.

For non-OLAP data sources, setting this property generates a run-time error.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PivotTable Object](a9c1d4a0-78a9-f9a6-6daf-91cb63e45842.md)
#### Other resources


 [PivotTable Object Members](8e8d1692-cf32-63c6-a1f6-54ddcc2a4964.md)
