
# WebOptions.DownloadComponents Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** if the necessary Microsoft Office Web components are downloaded when you view the saved document in a Web browser, but only if the components are not already installed. **False** if the components are not downloaded. The default value is **False**. Read/write  **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **DownloadComponents**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **WebOptions** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can set the  ** [LocationOfComponents](0581343b-e93e-1413-4348-529f48a166eb.md)**property to a central URL (on the intranet or Web) or path (local or network) to a location from which authorized users can download components when viewing your saved document. The path must be valid and must point to a location that contains the necessary components, and the user must have a valid Microsoft Office license.

Office Web components add interactivity to documents that you save as Web pages. If you view a Web page in a browser on a computer that does not have the components installed, the interactive portions of the page will be static.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example allows the Office Web components to be downloaded with the specified Web page, if they are not already installed.


```
Application.DefaultWebOptions.DownloadComponents = True 
Application.DefaultWebOptions.LocationOfComponents = _ 
 Application.Path &amp; Application.PathSeparator &amp; "foo"
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [WebOptions Object](d573637f-1891-4602-c961-091795e47356.md)
#### Other resources


 [WebOptions Object Members](4188ab11-5d84-aed8-2a2e-17881dcebe67.md)
