
# Worksheet.XmlDataQuery Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns a  ** [Range](b8207778-0dcc-4570-1234-f130532cc8cd.md)** object that represents the cells mapped to a particular XPath. Returns **Nothing** if the specified XPath has not been mapped to the worksheet, or if the mapped range is empty.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **XmlDataQuery**( **_XPath_**,  **_SelectionNamespaces_**,  **_Map_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Worksheet** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|XPath|Required| **String**|The XPath to query for.|
|SelectionNamespaces|Optional| **Variant**|A space-delimited  **String** that contains the namespaces referenced in the XPath parameter. A run-time error will be generated if one of the specified namespaces cannot be resolved.|
|Map|Optional| **Variant**|Specify an  ** [XmlMap](39b0823f-0068-d8df-e4e1-ca62b55d58f5.md)** if you want to query for the XPath within a specific map.|

### Return Value

Range


## Remarks

If the XPath exists within a column in an XML list, the  **Range** object returned does not include the header row.

This method returns  **Nothing** if the XPath location path is not mapped into the grid. Thus, a return of **Nothing** doesn't necessarily mean that the map doesn't exist. It could mean that there is currently no data range available at the specified XPath location. You can use the ** [XmlMapQuery](ac1d20f4-92ad-110e-00be-0fe4e098cb35.md)** method to check for the existence of a mapped XPath.


 **Note**  The  **XmlDataQuery** method allows you to query for the existence of particular map data. It can not be used to query for a piece of data in a map. For example, it is valid for a mapped range to exist in which the XPath for that range is "/root/People[@Age="23"]/FirstName". An XmlDataQuery query for this XPath location path will returnreturns the correct range. However, a query for "/root/People[FirstName="Joe"]" hoping to find "Joe" within the above mapped range will fail because the XPath definitions for the mapped ranges are different.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Worksheet Object](182b705e-854a-81cc-a4b0-59b942de55ae.md)
#### Other resources


 [Worksheet Object Members](f8c1afea-1a1c-f5e4-37e3-52c434c8c157.md)
