
# QueryTable.MaintainConnection Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** if the connection to the specified data source is maintained after the refresh and until the workbook is closed. The default value is **True**. Read/write  **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MaintainConnection**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **QueryTable** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can set the  **MaintainConnection** property only if the ** [QueryType](7cf9ea40-62ea-7211-7832-31eceb44ed15.md)**property of the query table or PivotTable cache is set to  **xlOLEDBQuery**.

If you anticipate frequent queries to a server, setting this property to  **True** might improve performance by reducing reconnection time. Setting the property to **False** causes an open connection to be closed.

If you import data using the user interface, data from a Web query or a text query is imported as a  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)** object, while all other external data is imported as a ** [ListObject](46de6c4f-8ce0-0c7d-da59-6e52f5eab612.md)** object.

If you import data using the object model, data from a Web query or a text query must be imported as a  **QueryTable**, while all other external data can be imported as either a  **ListObject** or a **QueryTable**.

You can use the  ** [QueryTable](fe019d61-654a-9c87-0bf4-30590a1274ca.md)** property of the **ListObject** to access the **MaintainConnection** property.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example creates a new PivotTable cache based on an OLAP provider, and then it creates a new PivotTable report based on the cache, at cell A3 on the active worksheet. The example terminates the connection after the initial refresh.


```
With ActiveWorkbook.PivotCaches.Add(SourceType:=xlExternal) 
 .Connection = _ 
 "OLEDB;Provider=MSOLAP;Location=srvdata;Initial Catalog=National" 
 .MaintainConnection = False 
 .CreatePivotTable TableDestination:=Range("A3"), _ 
 TableName:= "PivotTable1" 
End With 
With ActiveSheet.PivotTables("PivotTable1") 
 .SmallGrid = False 
 .PivotCache.RefreshPeriod = 0 
 With .CubeFields("[state]") 
 .Orientation = xlColumnField 
 .Position = 0 
 End With 
 With .CubeFields("[Measures].[Count Of au_id]") 
 .Orientation = xlDataField 
 .Position = 0 
 End With 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
