
# WorksheetFunction.ChiDist Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns the one-tailed probability of the chi-squared distribution. 

 **Important**  This function has been replaced with one or more new functions that may provide improved accuracy and whose names better reflect their usage. This function is still available for compatibility with earlier versions of Excel. However, if backward compatibility is not required, you should consider using the new functions from now on, because they more accurately describe their functionality.

For more information about the new functions, see the  [ChiSq_Dist_RT](65b8bd60-c13f-9f64-58c3-cc0ce582f939.md) and [ChiSq_Dist](be655878-fdb2-7b04-0a9b-6d39652b7e77.md) methods.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **ChiDist**( **_Arg1_**,  **_Arg2_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [WorksheetFunction](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Arg1|Required| **Double**|The value at which you want to evaluate the distribution.|
|Arg2|Required| **Double**|The number of degrees of freedom.|

### Return Value

Double


## Remarks

The χ 2 distribution is associated with a χ2 test. Use the χ2 test to compare observed and expected values.

 For example, a genetic experiment might hypothesize that the next generation of plants will exhibit a certain set of colors. By comparing the observed results with the expected ones, you can decide whether your original hypothesis is valid.


- If either argument is nonnumeric, ChiDist generates an error.
    
- If x is negative, ChiDist generates an error.
    
- If degrees_freedom is not an integer, it is truncated.
    
- If degrees_freedom < 1 or degrees_freedom > 10^10, ChiDist generates an error.
    
- ChiDist is calculated as ChiDist = P(X>x), where X is a χ2 random variable.
    

## See also


#### Concepts


 [WorksheetFunction Object](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)
#### Other resources


 [WorksheetFunction Object Members](6811ca87-4b53-0bff-88c9-30bf7497879a.md)
