
# DoCmd.CopyObject Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


The  **CopyObject** method carries out the CopyObject action in Visual Basic.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **CopyObject**( **_DestinationDatabase_**,  **_NewName_**,  **_SourceObjectType_**,  **_SourceObjectName_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **DoCmd** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|DestinationDatabase|Optional| **Variant**|A string expression that's the valid path and file name for the database you want to copy the object into. To select the current database, leave this argument blank.
 **Note**  In a Microsoft Access project (.adp) you must leave the destinationdatabase argument blank. If you execute Visual Basic code containing the  **CopyObject** method in a library database and leave this argument blank, Microsoft Access copies the object into the library database.

|
|NewName|Optional| **Variant**|A string expression that's the new name for the object you want to copy. To use the same name if you are copying into another database, leave this argument blank.|
|SourceObjectType|Optional| **AcObjectType**|A  ** [AcObjectType](157a8d35-2b27-4f62-8e74-525043f6ec71.md)** constant that represents the type of object to copy.|
|SourceObjectName|Optional| **Variant**|A string expression that's the valid name of an object of the type selected by the sourceobjecttype argument. If you run Visual Basic code containing the  **CopyObject** method in a library database, Microsoft Access looks for the object with this name first in the library database, then in the current database.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use the CopyObject action to copy the specified database object to a different Microsoft Access database or to the same database or Access project (.adp) under a new name. For example, you can copy or back up an existing object in another database or quickly create a similar object with a few changes.

You must include either the destinationdatabase or newname argument or both for this method.

If you leave the sourceobjecttype and sourceobjectname arguments blank (the default constant,  **acDefault**, is assumed for sourceobjecttype), Microsoft Access copies the object selected in the Database window. To select an object in the Database window, you can use the SelectObject action or  **SelectObject** method with the In Database Window argument set to Yes ( **True**).

If you specify the sourceobjecttype and sourceobjectname arguments but leave either the newname argument or the destinationdatabase argument blank, you must include the newname or destinationdatabase argument's comma. If you leave a trailing argument blank, don't use a comma following the last argument you specify.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **CopyObject** method to copy the Employees table and give it a new name in the current database:


```
DoCmd.CopyObject, "Employees Copy", acTable, "Employees"
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [DoCmd Object](3ce44cca-9979-0a1e-9787-079a52ce528f.md)
#### Other resources


 [DoCmd Object Members](3e7ade9e-86e4-0751-188b-5d31c9101651.md)
