
# Fields Collection (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Contains all the [Field](1dbd535e-48ad-a5c8-a1b2-6776c1e3e19d.md) objects of a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) or[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) object.

## Remarks

A  **Recordset** object has a **Fields** collection made up of **Field** objects. Each **Field** object corresponds to a column in the **Recordset**. You can populate the **Fields** collection before opening the **Recordset** by calling the[Refresh](f1c8829f-9c7d-12b6-7470-727ff38d663e.md) method on the collection.


 **Note**  See the  **Field** object topic for a more detailed explanation of how to use **Field** objects.

The  **Fields** collection has an[Append](cca133af-2b95-877d-0488-0d99631623f2.md) method, which provisionally creates and adds a **Field** object to the collection, and an **Update** method, which finalizes any additions or deletions.

A  **Record** object has two special fields that can be indexed with[FieldEnum](fbd415c0-d6b4-278f-318b-98432c013634.md) constants. One constant accesses a field containing the default stream for the **Record**, and the other accesses a field containing the absolute URL string for the **Record**.

Certain providers (for example, the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md)) may populate the  **Fields** collection with a subset of available fields for the **Record** or **Recordset**. Other fields will not be added to the collection until they are first referenced by name or indexed by your code.

If you attempt to reference a nonexistent field by name, a new  **Field** object will be appended to the **Fields** collection with a[Status](7a7b45e8-2934-2e8e-77fa-a4f38272548d.md) of **adFieldPendingInsert**. When you call[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md), ADO will create a new field in your data source if allowed by your provider.

