
# Save Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Saves the [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) in a file or[Stream](d49b1514-e0b4-0aca-d5c2-8266f3f4fe65.md) object.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _recordset_. **Save** _Destination_, _PersistFormat_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Destination_
    
- Optional. A  **Variant** that represents the complete path name of the file where the **Recordset** is to be saved, or a reference to a **Stream** object.
    
-  _PersistFormat_
    
- Optional. A [PersistFormatEnum](5aa99a63-d422-0812-5aba-19305a3ad405.md) value that specifies the format in which the **Recordset** is to be saved (XML or ADTG). The default value is **adPersistADTG**.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The  **Save** method can only be invoked on an open **Recordset**. Use the[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md) method to later restore the **Recordset** from _Destination_.

If the [Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property is in effect for the **Recordset**, then only the rows accessible under the filter are saved. If the **Recordset** is hierarchical, then the current child **Recordset** and its children are saved, including the parent **Recordset**. If the **Save** method of a child **Recordset** is called, the child and all its children are saved, but the parent is not.

The first time you save the  **Recordset**, it is optional to specify _Destination_. If you omit _Destination_, a new file will be created with a name set to the value of the[Source](523ea81e-d011-8d87-436e-084b6eba0908.md) property of the **Recordset**.

Omit  _Destination_ when you subsequently call **Save** after the first save, or a run-time error will occur. If you subsequently call **Save** with a new _Destination_, the **Recordset** is saved to the new destination. However, the new destination and the original destination will both be open.

 **Save** does not close the **Recordset** or _Destination_, so you can continue to work with the **Recordset** and save your most recent changes. _Destination_ remains open until the **Recordset** is closed.

For reasons of security, the  **Save** method permits only the use of low and custom security settings from a script executed by Microsoft Internet Explorer. For a more detailed explanation of security issues, see "ADO and RDS Security Issues in Microsoft Internet Explorer" under ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) Technical Articles in Microsoft Data Access Technical Articles.

If the  **Save** method is called while an asynchronous **Recordset** fetch, execute, or update operation is in progress, then **Save** waits until the asynchronous operation is complete.

Records are saved beginning with the first row of the  **Recordset**. When the **Save** method is finished, the current row position is moved to the first row of the **Recordset**.

For best results, set the [CursorLocation](8a048bd4-ae25-a555-1c07-14364b7e6560.md) property to **adUseClient** with **Save**. If your provider does not support all of the functionality necessary to save **Recordset** objects, the Cursor Service will provide that functionality.

When a  **Recordset** is persisted with the **CursorLocation** property set to **adUseServer**, the update capability for the **Recordset** is limited. Typically, only single-table updates, insertions, and deletions are allowed (dependant upon provider functionality). The[Resync](f594a200-56e6-fcf5-9b0a-900c56377f24.md) method is also unavailable in this configuration.


 **Note**  Saving a  **Recordset** with **Fields** of type **adVariant**, **adIDispatch**, or **adIUnknown** is not supported by ADO and can cause unpredictable results.

Only  **Filters** in the form of Criteria Strings (e.g. OrderDate > '12/31/1999') affect the contents of a persisted **Recordset**. Filters created with an Array of **Bookmarks** or using a value from the **FilterGroupEnum** will not affect the contents of the persisted **Recordset**. These rules apply to **Recordsets** created with either client-side or server-side cursors.

Because the  _Destination_ parameter can accept any object that supports the OLE DB IStream interface, you can save a **Recordset** directly to the ASP Response object. For more details, please see the[XML Recordset Persistence Scenario](08f464da-10ba-b649-7571-766a40da2e04.md).

You can also save a  **Recordset** in XML format to an instance of an MSXML DOM object, as is shown in the following Visual Basic code:


 **Note**  Two limitations apply when saving hierarchical  **Recordsets** (data shapes) in XML format. You cannot save into XML if the hierarchical **Recordset** contains pending updates, and you cannot save a parameterized hierarchical **Recordset**.

A Recordset saved in XML format is saved using UTF-8 format. When such a file is loaded into an ADO Stream, the Stream object will not attempt to open a Recordset from the stream unless the Charset property of the stream is set to the appropriate value for UTF-8 format.

