
# Application.Evaluate Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Converts a Microsoft Excel name to an object or a value.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Evaluate**( **_Name_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Name|Required| **Variant**|A formula or the name of the object, using the naming convention of Microsoft Excel. The length of the name must be less than or equal to 255 characters.|

### Return Value

Variant


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The following types of names in Microsoft Excel can be used with this method:


- Formulas.
    
- A1-style references. You can use any reference to a single cell in A1-style notation. All references are considered to be absolute references.
    
- Ranges. You can use the range, intersect, and union operators (colon, space, and comma, respectively) with references.
    
- Defined names. You can specify any name in the language of the macro.
    
- External references. You can use the ! operator to refer to a cell or to a name defined in another workbook — for example,  `Evaluate("[BOOK1.XLS]Sheet1!A1")`.
    
- Chart Objects. You can specify any chart object name, such as "Legend", "Plot Area", or "Series 1", to access the properties and methods of that object. For example,  `Charts("Chart1").Evaluate("Legend").Font.Name` returns the name of the font used in the legend.
    

 **Note**  Using square brackets (for example, "[A1:C5]") is identical to calling the  **Evaluate** method with a string argument. For example, the following expression pairs are equivalent.


```
[a1].Value = 25 
Evaluate("A1").Value = 25 
 
trigVariable = [SIN(45)] 
trigVariable = Evaluate("SIN(45)") 
 
Set firstCellInSheet = Workbooks("BOOK1.XLS").Sheets(4).[A1] 
Set firstCellInSheet = _ 
    Workbooks("BOOK1.XLS").Sheets(4).Evaluate("A1")

```

The advantage of using square brackets is that the code is shorter. The advantage of using  **Evaluate** is that the argument is a string, so you can either construct the string in your code or use a Visual Basic variable.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example turns on bold formatting in cell A1 on Sheet1.


```
Worksheets("Sheet1").Activate 
boldCell = "A1" 
Application.Evaluate(boldCell).Font.Bold = True
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](19b73597-5cf9-4f56-8227-b5211f657f6f.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](4cb9ca42-8d07-cc9c-2d80-4eb9a5921e1e.md)
