
# WorksheetFunction.BetaDist Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns the beta cumulative distribution function.

 **Important**  This function has been replaced with one or more new functions that may provide improved accuracy and whose names better reflect their usage. This function is still available for compatibility with earlier versions of Excel. However, if backward compatibility is not required, you should consider using the new functions from now on, because they more accurately describe their functionality.

For more information about the new function, see the  [Beta_Dist](f691e4b0-3021-6a7e-3306-af7b5cb3720b.md) method.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **BetaDist**( **_Arg1_**,  **_Arg2_**,  **_Arg3_**,  **_Arg4_**,  **_Arg5_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [WorksheetFunction](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Arg1|Required| **Double**|The value between A and B at which to evaluate the function.|
|Arg2|Required| **Double**|A parameter of the distribution.|
|Arg3|Required| **Double**|A parameter of the distribution.|
|Arg4|Optional| **Variant**|An optional lower bound to the interval of x.|
|Arg5|Optional| **Variant**|An optional upper bound to the interval of x.|

### Return Value

Double


## Remarks

The beta distribution is commonly used to study variation in the percentage of something across samples, such as the fraction of the day people spend watching television.


- If any argument is nonnumeric, BetaDist returns the #VALUE! error value.
    
- If alpha ≤ 0 or beta ≤ 0, BetaDist generates an error value.
    
- If x < A, x > B, or A = B, BetaDist generates an error value.
    
- If you omit values for A and B, BetaDist uses the standard cumulative beta distribution, so that A = 0 and B = 1.
    

## See also


#### Concepts


 [WorksheetFunction Object](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)
#### Other resources


 [WorksheetFunction Object Members](6811ca87-4b53-0bff-88c9-30bf7497879a.md)
