
# Application.ThisWorkbook Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns a  ** [Workbook](8c00aa60-c974-eed3-0812-3c9625eb0d4c.md)**object that represents the workbook where the current macro code is running. Read-only.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ThisWorkbook**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use this property to refer to the workbook that contains your macro code.  **ThisWorkbook** is the only way to refer to an add-in workbook from inside the add-in itself. The **ActiveWorkbook** property doesn't return the add-in workbook; it returns the workbook that's calling the add-in.

The  **Workbooks** property may fail, as the workbook name probably changed when you created the add-in. **ThisWorkbook** always returns the workbook in which the code is running.

For example, use code such as the following to activate a dialog sheet stored in your add-in workbook.

 `ThisWorkbook.DialogSheets(1).Show`

This property can be used only from inside Microsoft Excel. You cannot use it to access a workbook from any other application.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example closes the workbook that contains the example code. Changes to the workbook, if any, aren't saved.


```
ThisWorkbook.Close SaveChanges:=False
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](19b73597-5cf9-4f56-8227-b5211f657f6f.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](4cb9ca42-8d07-cc9c-2d80-4eb9a5921e1e.md)
