
# ListBox.TabStop Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **TabStop** property to specify whether you can use the TAB key to move the focus to a control. Read/write **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **TabStop**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ListBox** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This property doesn't apply to toggle button controls when they appear in an option group. It applies only to the option group itself.

The  **TabStop** property uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Visual Basic**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Yes| **True**|(Default) You can move the focus to the control by pressing the TAB key.|
|No| **False**|You can't move the focus to the control by pressing the TAB key.|
When you create a control on a form, Microsoft Access automatically assigns the control a position in the form's tab order. Each new control is placed last in the tab order. If you want to prevent a control from being available when you tab through the controls in a form, set the control's  **TabStop** property to No.

In Form view, hidden or disabled controls remain in the tab order but are skipped when you move through the controls by pressing TAB, even if their  **TabStop** properties are set to Yes.

As long as a control's  **Enabled**property is set to Yes, you can click the control or use an access key to select it, regardless of its  **TabStop** property setting. For example, you can set the **TabStop** property of a command button to No to prevent users from selecting the button by pressing TAB. However, they can still click the command button to choose it.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example disables the ability to move the focus to the "City" text box on the "Suppliers" form by using the TAB key.


```
Forms("Suppliers").Controls("City").TabStop = False
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ListBox Object](6bc00755-34e7-4fc2-8e72-40dae2010dd8.md)
#### Other resources


 [ListBox Object Members](d87ad51b-9a46-21f3-f6d6-ef98ea8aaf6d.md)
