
# Charts Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of all the chart sheets in the specified or active workbook.

## Remarks

Each chart sheet is represented by a  **Chart** object. This does not include charts embedded on worksheets or dialog sheets. For information about embedded charts, see the ** [Chart](179c32ce-49bd-6f36-ea12-89fb5443f3ea.md)**or  ** [ChartObject](b546e6f2-7ac6-2dea-eba2-f98f68f3df65.md)** topics.


## Example

Use the  ** [Charts](582d9a78-d86f-ab69-0c22-85f8a59412d9.md)** property to return the **Charts** collection. The following example prints all chart sheets in the active workbook.


```
Charts.PrintOut
```

Use the  ** [Add](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/370a8ab0-4c65-4a2f-c671-9b5654ff41c0%28Office.15%29.aspx)** method to create a new chart sheet and add it to the workbook. The following example adds a new chart sheet to the active workbook and places the new chart sheet immediately after the worksheet named Sheet1.




```
Charts.Add After:=Worksheets("Sheet1")
```

You can combine the  **Add** method with the ** [ChartWizard](c47588d9-6969-d6bb-cbbc-4941198d78b4.md)** method to add a new chart that contains data from a worksheet. The following example adds a new line chart based on data in cells A1:A20 on the worksheet named Sheet1.




```
With Charts.Add 
 .ChartWizard source:=Worksheets("Sheet1").Range("A1:A20"), _ 
 Gallery:=xlLine, Title:="February Data" 
End With
```

Use  **Charts**( _index_), where  _index_ is the chart-sheet index number or name, to return a single **Chart** object. The following example changes the color of series 1 on chart sheet 1 to red.




```
Charts(1).SeriesCollection(1).Format.Fill.ForeColor.RGB = rgbRed
```

The  ** [Sheets](048fd93c-bc27-4b58-358f-56fcee1710f8.md)** collection contains all the sheets in the workbook (both chart sheets and worksheets). Use **Sheets**( _index_), where  _index_ is the sheet name or number, to return a single sheet.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [Charts Object Members](209281d5-4fda-65f1-ac1c-6ae43c2764ba.md)
