
# Application.DDETerminateAll Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **DDETerminateAll** statement to close all open dynamic data exchange (DDE) channels.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **DDETerminateAll**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Return Value

Nothing


## Remarks

For example, suppose you've opened two DDE channels between Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Access, one to retrieve system information about Microsoft Excel and one to transfer data. You can use the  **DDETerminateAll** statement to close both channels simultaneously.

Using the  **DDETerminateAll** statement is equivalent to executing a ** [DDETerminate](97684f64-dd80-03b6-965d-42e9d0e6f264.md)**statement for each open channel number. Like the  **DDETerminate** statement, the **DDETerminateAll** statement has no effect on active DDE link expressions in fields on forms or reports.

If there are no DDE channels open, the  **DDETerminateAll** statement runs without causing a run-time error.

 **Tips**


- If you interrupt a procedure that performs DDE, you may inadvertently leave channels open. To avoid exhausting system resources, use the  **DDETerminateAll** statement in your code or from the Immediate (lower) pane of the Debug window while debugging code that performs DDE.
    
- If you need to manipulate another application's objects from Microsoft Access, you may want to consider using Automation.
    

## See also


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](aefb0713-97e6-e2c7-e530-8fd2e1316a55.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](3ab5276c-d52a-72a9-244c-ec92ead48811.md)
