
# Form.SubdatasheetHeight Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **SubdatasheetHeight** property to specify or determine the default display height of a subdatasheet when expanded. Read/write **Integer**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **SubdatasheetHeight**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Form** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

the  **SubdatasheetHeight** property's value is expressed in twips.

To set the  **SubdatasheetHeight** property by using Visual Basic, you must first create the property by using the DAO **CreateProperty**method.

If the subdatasheet includes more records than the height setting can accommodate, a vertical scrollbar is displayed.

The  **SubdatasheetHeight** property setting includes the New Record row if adding new records is supported. It does not include the column header row or scrollbar region.

The  **SubdatasheetHeight** and **SubdatasheetExpanded** properties take effect on the subform control when the form is in datasheet view.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example resizes the height of the subdatasheet in the "Purchase Orders" form (containing a subform) to show only one line of the subdatasheet at a time (measured at about 400 twips), accompanied by a vertical scrollbar. The number 400 is arbitrary, and will vary based on monitor resolution and default font size. This behavior can only be seen in Datasheet View.


```
Forms("Purchase Orders").SubdatasheetHeight = 400
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Form Object](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)
#### Other resources


 [Form Object Members](e1976b58-28ca-8f76-cdf3-6732cb06ce6c.md)
