
# Bookmark Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates a bookmark that uniquely identifies the current record in a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object or sets the current record in a **Recordset** object to the record identified by a valid bookmark.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **Variant** expression that evaluates to a valid bookmark.


## Remarks

Use the  **Bookmark** property to save the position of the current record and return to that record at any time. Bookmarks are available only in **Recordset** objects that support bookmark functionality.

When you open a  **Recordset** object, each of its records has a unique bookmark. To save the bookmark for the current record, assign the value of the **Bookmark** property to a variable. To quickly return to that record at any time after moving to a different record, set the **Recordset** object's **Bookmark** property to the value of that variable.

The user may not be able to view the value of the bookmark. Also, users should not expect bookmarks to be directly comparable — two bookmarks that refer to the same record may have different values.

If you use the [Clone](ca9b2b76-90bf-9a60-2611-3cb4977d5591.md) method to create a copy of a **Recordset** object, the **Bookmark** property settings for the original and the duplicate **Recordset** objects are identical and you can use them interchangeably. However, you cannot use bookmarks from different **Recordset** objects interchangeably, even if they were created from the same source or command.

 **Remote Data Service Usage** When used on a client-side **Recordset** object, the **Bookmark** property is always available.

