
# Requery Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameter](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Updates the data in a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object by re-executing the query on which the object is based.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _recordset_. **Requery** _ Options_


## Parameter
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Options_
    
- Optional. A bitmask that contains [ExecuteOptionEnum](bd6d44a3-e471-7aa0-3e65-6775334de2ff.md) and[CommandTypeEnum](9ad8f155-88a0-00eb-2855-1e1a2a677437.md) values affecting this operation.
    

 **Note**  If  _Options_ is set to **adAsyncExecute**, this operation will execute asynchronously and a[RecordsetChangeComplete](2cec4cf9-a4e9-c386-5202-04e86f4cf8ad.md) event will be issued when it concludes.

The  **ExecuteOpenEnum** values of **adExecuteNoRecords** or **adExecuteStream** should not be used with **Requery**.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

Use the  **Requery** method to refresh the entire contents of a **Recordset** object from the data source by reissuing the original command and retrieving the data a second time. Calling this method is equivalent to calling the[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md) and[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md) methods in succession. If you are editing the current record or adding a new record, an error occurs.

While the  **Recordset** object is open, the properties that define the nature of the cursor ([CursorType](f42ded8f-9f92-ef03-a198-ffb892324611.md), [LockType](1d2622dc-6cab-1b7f-98a8-97a41d5c047f.md), [MaxRecords](424b2d41-073a-3fbe-30aa-99fac94f9a81.md), and so forth) are read-only. Thus, the  **Requery** method can only refresh the current cursor. To change any of the cursor properties and view the results, you must use the[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md) method so that the properties become read/write again. You can then change the property settings and call the[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md) method to reopen the cursor.

