
# Running Business Objects in Component Services

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Business objects can be executable files (.exe) or dynamic-link libraries (.dll). The configuration you use to run the business object depends on whether the object is a .dll or .exe file:


- Business objects created as .exe files can be called through DCOM. If these business objects are used through Internet Information Services (IIS), they are subject to additional marshalingof data, which will slow client performance.
    
- Business objects created as .dll files can be used via IIS (and therefore HTTP). They can also be used over DCOM only via Component Services (or Microsoft Transaction Server, if you are using Windows NT). Business object DLLs will need to be registered on the IIS server computer to give you accessibility via IIS. (For steps on how to configure a DLL to run on DCOM, see the section, "[Enabling a DLL to Run on DCOM](b405f767-91f0-c869-d34e-7a953de49106.md).")
    

 **Note**  When business objects on the middle tier are implemented as Component Services components (using  **GetObjectContext**, **SetComplete**, and **SetAbort** ), they can use Component Services (or MTS, if you are using Windows NT) context objects to maintain their state across multiple client calls. This scenario is possible with DCOM, which is typically implemented between trusted clients and servers (an intranet). In this case, the[RDS.DataSpace](7db181d5-422b-49fe-b6af-a20f5da520ff.md) object and[CreateObject](130debe5-31cf-4ab0-5f78-9adaec7d7126.md) method on the client side are replaced by the transaction context object and **CreateInstance** method (provided by the **ITransactionContext** interface), implemented by Component Services.

