
# Form.MinMaxButtons Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **MinMaxButtons** property to specify whether the **Maximize** and **Minimize** buttons will be visible on a form. Read/write **Byte**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MinMaxButtons**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Form** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **MinMaxButtons** property uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Visual Basic**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|None|0|The  **Maximize** and **Minimize** buttons aren't visible.|
|Min Enabled|1|Only the  **Minimize** button is visible.|
|Max Enabled|2|Only the  **Maximize** button is visible.|
|Both Enabled|3|(Default) Both the  **Minimize** and **Maximize** buttons are visible.|
You can set the  **MinMaxButtons** property only in form Design view.

Clicking a form's  **Maximize** button enlarges the form so it fills the Microsoft Access window. Clicking a form's **Minimize** button reduces the form to a short title bar at the bottom of the Microsoft Access window.

To display the  **Maximize** and **Minimize** buttons on a form, you must set the form's **BorderStyle**property to Thin or Sizable and the  **ControlBox** property to Yes. If you set the **BorderStyle** property to None or Dialog, or if you set the **ControlBox** property to No, the form won't have **Maximize** or **Minimize** buttons, regardless of the **MinMaxButtons** property setting.

Even when the  **MinMaxButtons** property is set to None, a form always has **Maximize** and **Minimize** buttons in Design view.

If a form's  **MinMaxButtons** property is set to None, the **Maximize** and **Minimize** commands aren't available on the form's **Control** menu.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example returns the value of the  **MinMaxButtons** property for the "Order Entry" form.


```
Dim b As Byte 
b = Forms("Order Entry").MinMaxButtons
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Form Object](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)
#### Other resources


 [Form Object Members](e1976b58-28ca-8f76-cdf3-6732cb06ce6c.md)
