
# CreateObject Method (RDS)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Creates the proxy for the target business object and returns a pointer to it. The proxy packages and marshals data to the server-side stub for communications with the business object to send requests and data over the Internet. For in-process component objects, no proxies are used, just a pointer to the object is provided.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Remote Data Service supports the following protocols: HTTP, HTTPS (HTTP over Secure Socket Layer), DCOM, and in-process.



|**Protocol**|**Syntax**|
|:-----|:-----|
|HTTP|**Set** _object_ = _DataSpace_. **CreateObject**(" _ProgId_ ", " _http://awebsrvr_ ")|
|HTTPS|**Set** _object_ = _DataSpace_. **CreateObject**(" _ProgId_ ", " _https://awebsrvr_ ")|
|DCOM|**Set** _object_ = _DataSpace_. **CreateObject**(" _ProgId_ ", " _computername_ ")|
|In-process|**Set** _object_ = _DataSpace_. **CreateObject**(" _ProgId_ ", " ")|

## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Object_
    
- An object variable that evaluates to an object that is the type specified in  _ProgID_.
    
-  _DataSpace_
    
- An object variable that represents an [RDS.DataSpace](7db181d5-422b-49fe-b6af-a20f5da520ff.md) object used to create an instance of the new object.
    
-  _ProgID_
    
- A  **String** value that contains the programmatic identifier specifying a server-side business object that implements your application's business rules.
    
-  _awebsrvr_ or _computername_
    
- A  **String** value that represents a URL identifying the Internet Information Services (IIS) Web server where an instance of the server business object is created.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The  _HTTP protocol_ is the standard Web protocol; _HTTPS_ is a secure Web protocol. Use the _DCOM protocol_ when running a local-area network without HTTP. The _in-process_ protocol is a local dynamic-link library (DLL); it does not use a network.

