
# Members Collection (ADO MD)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Contains the [Member](d80c024a-07dc-7a35-f8f2-b4d5b19d89e4.md) objects from a level or a position along an axis.

## Remarks

A  **Members** collection is used to contain the following types of members:


- The members that make up a level in a cube. These are contained in the  **Members** collection of a[Level](ddbcabce-8777-1068-98a3-be209084f497.md) object. For example, using the sample from[Overview of Multidimensional Schemas and Data](a963e993-b7bf-eeb4-ecd5-d6fe43cf4bb5.md), the four members of the Countries level are Canada, USA, UK, and Germany.
    
- The members that are the children of a specific member within a hierarchy. These members are returned by the [Children](66eff203-68e5-a36d-eb2f-2e9faa80deb6.md) property of the parent **Member** object. For example, again using the same sample, the two children of the Canada member are Canada-East and Canada-West.
    
- The members that define a specific position along an axis of a [cellset](28d4b3b9-f907-9ec0-00e1-9666c887cdf0.md). Using the cellset from [Working with Multidimensional Data](a0c9ac73-04da-cfdd-8787-15c8a53ff819.md) as an example, the two members of the first position on the x-axis are Valentine and Seattle. These members are contained by the **Members** collection of a[Position](f8d33cbf-6196-cce4-a140-75521677f1f4.md) object.
    
 **Members** is a standard ADO collection. With the properties and methods of a collection, you can do the following:


- Obtain the number of objects in the collection with the [Count](b59f9581-ffd1-471d-44fa-3c1bb812e140.md) property.
    
- Return an object from the collection with the default [Item](793c305f-0e5b-a529-e21f-b7ab0843ed49.md) property.
    
- Update the objects in the collection from the provider with the [Refresh](f1c8829f-9c7d-12b6-7470-727ff38d663e.md) method.
    
