
# Form.Activate Event (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The Activate event occurs when a form receives the focus and becomes the active window.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Activate**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Form** object.


### Return Value

nothing


## Remarks


 **Note**  The  **Activate** event doesn't occur when a form receives focus back from a dialog box, popup, or another form.

To run a macro or event procedure when these events occur, set the  **OnActivate**, or  **OnDeactivate**property to the name of the macro or to [Event Procedure].

You can make a form active by opening it, clicking it or a control on it, or by using the  **SetFocus**method in Visual Basic.

The  **Activate** event can occur only when a form is visible.

The  **Activate** event occurs before the **GotFocus**event; the Deactivate event occurs after the  **LostFocus**event.

When you switch between two open forms, the  **Deactivate** event occurs for the form being switched from, and the **Activate** event occurs for the form being switched to. If the forms contain no visible, enabled controls, the **LostFocus** event occurs for the first form before the **Deactivate** event, and the **GotFocus** event occurs for the second form after the **Activate** event.

When you first open a form, the following events occur in this order:

 **Open** → **Load** → **Resize** → **Activate** → **Current**

When you close a form, the following events occur in this order:

 **Unload** → **Deactivate** → **Close**


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Form Object](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)
#### Other resources


 [Form Object Members](e1976b58-28ca-8f76-cdf3-6732cb06ce6c.md)
