
# AllFunctions Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **AllFunctions** collection contains an ** [AccessObject](8a770b33-5bff-120a-6707-ca214ee5ced3.md)**object for each function in the  ** [CurrentData](c8d3f74f-050d-e1be-9496-2f1e20996066.md)**or  ** [CodeData](fc207136-4d18-2c7d-ffe6-0e1ad7c2fc32.md)**object.

## Remarks

The  **CurrentData** or **CodeData** object has an **AllFunctions** collection containing **AccessObject** objects that describe instances of all functions specified by the **CurrentData** or **CodeData** objects. For example, you can enumerate the **AllFunctions** collection in Visual Basic to set or return the values of properties of individual **AccessObject** objects in the collection.

You can refer to an individual  **AccessObject** object in the **AllFunctions** collection either by referring to the object by name, or by referring to its index within the collection. If you want to refer to a specific object in the **AllFunctions** collection, it's better to refer to the function by name because a function's collection index may change.

The  **AllFunctions** collection is indexed beginning with zero. If you refer to a function by its index, the first function is AllFunctions(0), the second table is AllFunctions(1), and so on.

To list all open functions in the database, use the  ** [IsLoaded](5e68398c-8a95-f3e1-87ec-e2d637f34429.md)**property of each  **AccessObject** object in the **AllFunctions** collection. You can then use the **Name**property of each individual  **AccessObject** object to return the name of a function.

You can't add or delete an  **AccessObject** object from the **AllFunctions** collection.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [AllFunctions Object Members](3c605618-e378-a653-ffca-a6e969f51975.md)
