
# QueryDef.Connect Property (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Sets or returns a value that provides information about the source of database used in a pass-through query. Read-only  **String**.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **Connect**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **QueryDef** object.


## Remarks

The  **Connect** property setting is a **String** composed of a database type specifier and zero or more parameters separated by semicolons. The **Connect** property passes additional information to ODBC and certain ISAM drivers as needed.

To perform an SQL pass-through query on a table linked to your Microsoft Access database file, you must first set the  **Connect** property of the linked table's database to a valid ODBC connection string.

The path as shown in the following table is the full path for the directory containing the database files and must be preceded by the identifier  `DATABASE=`. In some cases (as with Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Access database engine databases), you should include a specific file name in the database path argument.

The following table shows possible database types and their corresponding database specifiers and paths for the  **Connect** property setting.



|**Database type**|**Specifier**|**Example**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Microsoft Access Database|[database];|drive:\path\filename|
|dBASE III|dBASE III;|drive:\path|
|dBASE IV|dBASE IV;|drive:\path|
|dBASE 5|dBASE 5.0;|drive:\path|
|Paradox 3.x|Paradox 3.x;|drive:\path|
|Paradox 4.x|Paradox 4.x;|drive:\path|
|Paradox 5.x|Paradox 5.x;|drive:\path|
|Microsoft Excel 3.0|Excel 3.0;|drive:\path\filename.xls|
|Microsoft Excel 4.0|Excel 4.0;|drive:\path\filename.xls|
|Microsoft Excel 5.0 or Microsoft Excel 95|Excel 5.0;|drive:\path\filename.xls|
|Microsoft Excel 97|Excel 8.0;|drive:\path\filename.xls|
|Lotus 1-2-3 WKS and WK1|Lotus WK1;|drive:\path\filename.wk1|
|Lotus 1-2-3 WK3|Lotus WK3;|drive:\path\filename.wk3|
|Lotus 1-2-3 WK4|Lotus WK4;|drive:\path\filename.wk4|
|HTML Import|HTML Import;|drive:\path\filename|
|HTML Export|HTML Export;|drive:\path|
|Text|Text;|drive:\path|
|ODBC|ODBC; DATABASE=database; UID=user; PWD=password; DSN= datasourcename; [LOGINTIMEOUT=seconds;]|None|
|Microsoft Exchange|Exchange 4.0; MAPILEVEL=folderpath; [TABLETYPE={ 0 | 1 }];[PROFILE=profile;] [PWD=password;] [DATABASE=database;]|drive:\path\filename|
If the specifier is only  `"ODBC;"`, the ODBC driver displays a dialog box listing all registered ODBC data source names so that the user can select a database.

If a password is required but not provided in the  **Connect** property setting, a login dialog box is displayed the first time a table is accessed by the ODBC driver and again if the connection is closed and reopened.

For data in Microsoft Exchange, the required MAPILEVEL key should be set to a fully-resolved folder path (for example, "Mailbox - Pat SmithIAlpha/Today"). The path does not include the name of the folder that will be opened as a table; that folder's name should instead be specified as the name argument to the  **CreateTable** method. The TABLETYPE key should be set to "0" to open a folder (default) or "1" to open an address book. The PROFILE key defaults to the profile currently in use.

On a  **QueryDef** object in a Microsoft Access workspace, you can use the **Connect** property with the ReturnsRecords property to create an ODBC SQL pass-through query. The databasetype of the connection string is `"ODBC;"`, and the remainder of the string contains information specific to the ODBC driver used to access the remote data. For more information, see the documentation for the specific driver.




 **Note**  

