
# CheckBox.Click Event (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


The  **Click** event occurs when the user presses and then releases a mouse button over an object.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Click**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **CheckBox** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>


- This event doesn't apply to check boxes, option buttons, or toggle buttons in an option group. It applies only to the option group itself.
    
- This event applies to a control containing a hyperlink.
    
To run a macro or event procedure when this event occurs, set the  **OnClick**property to the name of the macro or to [Event Procedure].

For a control, this event occurs when the user:


- Clicks a control with the left mouse button. Clicking a control with the right or middle mouse button does not trigger this event.
    
- Clicks a control containing hyperlink data with the left mouse button. Clicking a control with the right or middle mouse button does not trigger this event. When the user moves the mouse pointer over a control containing hyperlink data, the mouse pointer changes to a "hand" icon. When the user clicks the mouse button, the hyperlink is activated, and then the  **Click** event occurs.
    
- Selects an item in a combo box or list box, either by pressing the arrow keys and then pressing the ENTER key or by clicking the mouse button.
    
- Presses SPACEBAR when a command button, check box, option button, or toggle button has the focus.
    
- Presses the ENTER key on a form that has a command button whose  **Default**property is set to Yes.
    
- Presses the ESC key on a form that has a command button whose  **Cancel**property is set to Yes.
    
- Presses a control's access key. For example, if a command button's  **Caption**property is set to &amp;Go, pressing ALT+G triggers the event.
    
Typically, you attach a  **Click**event procedure or macro to a command button to carry out commands and command-like actions. For the other applicable controls, use this event to trigger actions in response to one of the occurrences discussed earlier in this topic.

You can use a  **CancelEvent** action in a DblClick macro to cancel the second **Click** event. For more information, see the DblClick event topic.

To distinguish between the left, right, and middle mouse buttons, use the  **MouseDown**and  **MouseUp**events.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

In the following example, the  **Click** event procedure is attached to the ReadOnly check box. The event procedure sets the Enabled and Locked properties of another control on the form, the Amount text box. When the check box is clicked, the event procedure checks whether the check box is being selected or cleared and then sets the text box's properties to enable or disable editing accordingly.

To try the example, add the following event procedure to a form that contains a check box called ReadOnly and a text box named Amount.




```
Private Sub ReadOnly_Click() 
 With Me!Amount 
 If Me!ReadOnly = True Then ' If checked. 
 .Enabled = False ' Disable editing. 
 .Locked = True 
 Else ' If cleared. 
 .Enabled = True ' Enable editing. 
 .Locked = False 
 End If 
 End With 
End Sub 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [CheckBox Object](63e75704-af4d-7b38-7b8b-04f7f17fa1ec.md)
#### Other resources


 [CheckBox Object Members](aeefeae7-4053-ec23-80ef-1da1099f54f0.md)
