
# Reset Method (RDS)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Executes the sort or filter on a client-side  **Recordset** based on the specified sort and filter properties.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _DataControl_. **Reset**( _value_ )


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _DataControl_
    
- An object variable that represents an [RDS.DataControl](ac430669-7628-696c-c036-b5d35405d788.md) object.
    
-  _value_
    
- Optional. A  **Boolean** value that is **True** (default) if you want to filter on the current "filtered" rowset. **False** indicates that you filter on the original rowset, removing any previous filter options.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The [SortColumn](0a5d157c-9261-960d-6f89-33d9c94b3940.md), [SortDirection](33de0dce-f371-6a54-d179-0627939f5b14.md), [FilterValue](66dc14cd-cc14-78cb-cb05-91eefb17ea47.md), [FilterCriterion](51e6cb64-a404-114e-8e1a-0744cceeec3e.md), and [FilterColumn](fb5d9f23-b62a-8131-d6ff-8b7ed8bb825c.md) properties provide sorting and filtering functionality on the client-side cache. The sorting functionality orders records by values from one column. The filtering functionality displays a subset of records based on a find criteria, while the full[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) is maintained in the cache. The **Reset** method will execute the criteria and replace the current **Recordset** with an updatable **Recordset**.

If there are changes to the original data that haven't yet been submitted, the  **Reset** method will fail. First, use the[SubmitChanges](ecaea12d-7e1a-095d-17e7-d631ef230b90.md) method to save any changes in a read/write **Recordset**, and then use the **Reset** method to sort or filter the records.

If you want to perform more than one filter on your rowset, you can use the optional  _Boolean_ argument with the **Reset** method. The following example shows how to do this:

