
# Workbooks and Worksheets

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

This topic links to programming tasks (how-to and walkthrough topics) for common workbook and worksheet scenarios. 

"How Do I ..." is your gateway to key task-based topics about programming and application development using Excel. The links provide pointers to important, procedure-based help topics.


## Workbooks and Worksheets


-  [How to: Add a Table of Contents to a Workbook](fc61a9c1-d651-502a-c8d4-d6a570898191.md)
    
      - Describes how to add a table of contents worksheet to a workbook.
    
-  [How to: Create Address Labels from a Spreadsheet](6c08634c-8137-9c27-f4de-390a2b8ffb4c.md)
    
      - Describes how to take a list of addresses arranged as one address per row, and arrange them to fit on printable address labels.
    
-  [Create a Scheduling Calendar Workbook](0f0f4946-c04c-4866-a6dd-79101df7bafb.md)
    
      - Describes how to use information in one workbook to create a scheduling calendar workbook that contains one month per worksheet and can optionally include holidays and weekends.
    
-  [How to: Create a Workbook](b505b4bc-a3c3-3362-28cb-c119c2af5a3d.md)
    
      - Describes how to create a workbook using Excel.
    
-  [Create or Replace a Worksheet](227df739-3e66-4d23-8168-da43f552fbe0.md)
    
      - Describes how to create or replace a worksheet in an existing workbook.
    
-  [Name a Worksheet By Using a Cell Value](a5553191-cfe1-4d5b-b69e-8052d466c8db.md)
    
      - Describes how to name a worksheet based on a value in a cell.
    
-  [How to: Refer to More Than One Sheet](70641be2-04fc-d8d7-631b-c87e6c270957.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to more than one worksheet in Excel.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Sheets by Index Number](dc947b43-8e96-733a-72e8-3487a4ad9e96.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to worksheets by index number.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Sheets by Name](8e58c0d0-ff97-fb00-6afc-f14e2f9c425d.md)
    
      - Describes how to refer to worksheets by name.
    
-  [Sort Worksheets Alphanumerically by Name](20ec8072-4886-40bc-8784-ab3d100d613a.md)
    
      - Describes how to sort worksheets in a workbook alphanumerically by name.
    
