
# Attachment.ColumnWidth Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **ColumnWidth** property to specify the width of a column in Datasheet view. Read/write **Integer**.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **ColumnWidth**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Attachment** object.


## Remarks

In Visual Basic , the  **ColumnWidth** property setting is an **Integer** value that represents the column width in twips. You can specify a width or use one of the following predefined settings.



|**Setting**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|0|Hides the column.|
|-1|(Default) Sizes the column to the default width.|

 **Note**  The  **ColumnWidth** property applies to all fields in Datasheet view and to form controls when the form is in Datasheet view.

Setting this property to 0, or resizing the field to a zero width in Datasheet view, sets the field's  **ColumnHidden**property to  **True** (-1) and hides the field in Datasheet view.

Setting a field's  **ColumnHidden** property to **False** (0) restores the field's **ColumnWidth** property to the value it had before the field was hidden. For example, if the **ColumnWidth** property was -1 prior to the field being hidden by setting the property to 0, changing the field's **ColumnHidden** property to **False** resets the **ColumnWidth** to -1.

The  **ColumnWidth** property for a field isn't available when the field's **ColumnHidden** property is set to **True**.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Attachment Object](b0756145-9012-f9b9-7df9-e168defed3bf.md)
#### Other resources


 [Attachment Object Members](4294b913-7691-5f45-2c20-5137c2320620.md)
