
# Form.ServerFilter Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **ServerFilter** property to specify a subset of records to be displayed when a server filter is applied to a form within a Microsoft Access project (.adp) or database. Read/write **String**.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **ServerFilter**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Form** object.


## Remarks

The  **ServerFilter** property is a string expression consisting of a WHERE clause without the WHERE keyword. For example, the following Visual Basic code defines and applies a filter to show only customers from the USA:


```
Me.ServerFilter = "Country = 'USA'" 
Me.Refresh
```

To set the  **ServerFilter** property, you must first either:


- Set the property value in the form's property sheet.
    
- Set the property in Visual Basic by typing
    
  ```
  Forms(0).ServerFilter = "fieldname = value"
  ```


    
    

 **Note**  Setting the  **ServerFilter** property has no effect on the ADO **Filter** property.

You can use the  **ServerFilter** property to save a filter and apply it at a later time. Filters are saved with the objects in which they are created. They are automatically loaded when the object is opened, but they aren't automatically applied.

To apply a saved filter to a form, you can click  **Apply Server Filter** on the toolbar, click **Apply Filter/Sort** on the **Records** menu, or use a macro or Visual Basic to set the **ServerFilterByForm** property to **True**.

The  **Apply Server Filter** button indicates the state of the **ServerFilter** and **ServerFilterByForm** properties. The button remains disabled until there is a filter to apply. If an existing filter is currently applied, the **Apply Server Filter** button appears pressed in.

To apply a filter automatically when a form is opened, specify in the  **OnOpen** event property setting of the form either a macro that uses the ApplyFilter action or an event procedure that uses the **ApplyFilter** method of the **DoCmd** object. In either case, the form opens in the Server Filter By Form window.

You can only remove a server filter by using Visual Basic to set the  **ServerFilterByForm** property to **False** or clear all filter criteria in the Server Filter By Form window and then click **Apply Server Filter**.

When the  **ServerFilter** property is set in form Design view, Microsoft Access does not attempt to validate the SQL expression. If the SQL expression is invalid, an error occurs when the filter is applied.


 **Note**  


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Form Object](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)
#### Other resources


 [Form Object Members](e1976b58-28ca-8f76-cdf3-6732cb06ce6c.md)
