
# Range.ShowDetail Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** if the outline is expanded for the specified range (so that the detail of the column or row is visible). The specified range must be a single summary column or row in an outline. Read/write **Variant**. For the  **PivotItem** object (or the **Range** object if the range is in a PivotTable report), this property is set to **True** if the item is showing detail.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ShowDetail**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Range** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This property isn't available for OLAP data sources.

If the specified range isn't in a PivotTable report, the following statements are true:


- The range must be in a single summary row or column.
    
- This property returns  **False** if _any_ of the children of the row or column are hidden.
    
- Setting this property to  **True** is equivalent to unhiding all the children of the summary row or column.
    
- Setting this property to  **False** is equivalent to hiding all the children of the summary row or column.
    
If the specified range is in a PivotTable report, it's possible to set this property for more than one cell at a time if the range is contiguous. This property can be returned only if the range is a single cell.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example shows detail for the summary row of an outline on Sheet1. Before running this example, create a simple outline that contains a single summary row, and then collapse the outline so that only the summary row is showing. Select one of the cells in the summary row, and then run the example.


```
Worksheets("Sheet1").Activate 
Set myRange = ActiveCell.CurrentRegion 
lastRow = myRange.Rows.Count 
myRange.Rows(lastRow).ShowDetail = True
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Range Object](b8207778-0dcc-4570-1234-f130532cc8cd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Range Object Members](4336bf81-1e63-7e44-1792-baf366a027a7.md)
