
# Access Reports How Do I...

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013_

 **In this article**
 [Design](#sectionSection0)
 [Controls](#sectionSection1)
 [Printing](#sectionSection2)
 [Events](#sectionSection3)


This page links to help on widely used report-related tasks. To view other categories of popular tasks covered in Help, see  [How Do I… in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md).

## Design
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>


-  [How to: Apply a Custom Ribbon to a Form or Report](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7dcdfa42-3eaa-43f9-b99d-56b2cac97f84%28Office.15%29.aspx)
    
      - Describes how to display a custom ribbon when a particular form or report is opened.
    
-  [How to: Call Procedures in a Subform or Subreport](ea37a0cb-9057-e268-28a7-183751c8a1b8.md)
    
      - Describes how to call a procedure that is stored in a subform or subreport from the main form or report.
    
-  [How to: Create Alternating Row Colors on a Report](ea37a0cb-9057-e268-28a7-183751c8a1b8.md)
    
      - Describes how to apply shading to every other row in a report.
    

## Controls
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>


-  [How to: Assign a Control a Value From a Table](d9bba7e3-bca0-00df-3753-dc99ae767759.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **DLookup** function to display the value of a field that is not in the record source for your form or report.
    
-  [How to: Set Form, Report, and Control Properties in Code](23d88ab3-9ee6-5f7f-2351-14bb94d7a27b.md)
    
      - Describes how to set properties of forms, reports, and controls.
    

## Printing
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  [How to: Programmatically Retrieve Printer Capabilities](8c929823-6b61-16ea-6d84-ff47cc1e8389.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the Windows API to determine a printer's capabilities.
    
-  [How to: Retrieve a List of Installed Printers](e3162c3e-6b5b-77c3-32f9-1fdfa64cdefc.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **Printers** collection to determine the installed printers.
    
-  [How to: Work with Form and Report Printer Settings](14a8aa00-9ad8-60f7-e103-791ab08c0e9e.md)
    
      - Describes how to set or retrieve printer settings for a specific form or report.
    

## Events
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  [How to: Apply a Filter When Opening a Form or Report](d7a43e62-3003-d411-2128-dffe0536e119.md)
    
      - Describes several techniques for filtering a form or report as it opens.
    
-  [How to: Cancel an Event](f91f4f8a-99fa-dca7-576a-11c76d6ddc93.md)
    
      - Lists the events that can be canceled programmatically.
    
-  [How to: Change the Filter or Sort Order of a Form or Report](9888dbcd-7409-f334-115e-a318131ebca4.md)
    
      - Describes how to change the filter or sort order of a form or report in response to users' actions.
    
-  [How to: Close a Report Automatically If It Does Not Contain Any Records](9b160bd3-6eca-f907-ae5b-4327c3c1618e.md)
    
      - Describes how to to cancel opening or printing a report when it has no data.
    
-  [How to: Filter a Report Using a Form's Filter](2b029c13-5abd-4865-cd05-25d094a97b9f.md)
    
      - Describes how to open a report that contains only the filtered records of a form.
    

-  [How Do I... in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md)
    
