
# Field Object (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Represents a column of data with a common data type.

## Remarks

Each  **Field** object corresponds to a column in the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md). You use the [Value](ff21d122-98e3-2b48-d92f-e696b8079fc5.md) property of **Field** objects to set or return data for the current record. Depending on the functionality the provider exposes, some collections, methods, or properties of a **Field** object may not be available.

With the collections, methods, and properties of a  **Field** object, you can do the following:


- Return the name of a field with the [Name](4b19bd08-ac3c-86f0-471d-06a37a0d4f89.md) property.
    
- View or change the data in the field with the  **Value** property. **Value** is the default property of the **Field** object.
    
- Return the basic characteristics of a field with the [Type](14d99172-2145-05ae-620b-459ba097f05c.md), [Precision](c9d54d78-d5a5-caf8-d635-259d1fcc0595.md), and [NumericScale](51b232d2-5bfd-521c-f4e9-65655ecc7c70.md) properties.
    
- Return the declared size of a field with the [DefinedSize](8d6db4c9-fbdc-9fcd-63f0-bd677c5ebcf6.md) property.
    
- Return the actual size of the data in a given field with the [ActualSize](020a414d-e6aa-5fb9-9b77-bd9d10124f8a.md) property.
    
- Determine what types of functionality are supported for a given field with the [Attributes](4cc1f036-606e-7d4b-d270-af374e9d99fa.md) property and[Properties](4d662790-1252-c930-e6f9-edf6a38636af.md) collection.
    
- Manipulate the values of fields containing long binary or long character data with the [AppendChunk](3fa931a3-2cd7-a3b0-a750-40e18bc9937e.md) and[GetChunk](1ef1c37a-8453-8d3b-251a-d16e0d519fd7.md) methods.
    
- If the provider supports batch updates, resolve discrepancies in field values during batch updating with the [OriginalValue](02ffc728-4692-d439-e2a6-2f02cca53a71.md) and[UnderlyingValue](f84f4c1c-2bd4-a725-3575-ed063ead13c8.md) properties.
    
All of the metadata properties ( **Name**, **Type**, **DefinedSize**, **Precision**, and **NumericScale** ) are available before opening the **Field** object's **Recordset**. Setting them at that time is useful for dynamically constructing forms.

