
# Build SQL Statements That Include Variables and Controls

 **Last modified:** July 30, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013_

When working with Data Access Objects (DAO) or ActiveX Data Objects (ADO), you may need to construct an SQL statement in code. This is sometimes referred to as taking your SQL code "inline". For example, if you're creating a new  **QueryDef** object, you must set its **SQL** property to a valid SQL string. But if you are using an ADO Recordset object, you must set its Source property to a valid SQL string.

The easiest way to construct an SQL statement is to create a query in the query design grid, switch to SQL view, and copy and paste the corresponding SQL statement into your code.
Often a query must be based on values that the user supplies, or that change in different situations. If this is the case, you'll need to include variables or control values in your query. The Access database engine processes all SQL statements, but not variables or controls. Therefore, you must construct your SQL statement so that Access first determines these values and then concatenates them into the SQL statement that's passed to the Access database engine.

## Building SQL Statements With DAO

The following example shows how to create a  **QueryDef** object with a simple SQL statement. This query returns all orders from an Orders table that were placed after 3-31-2006:


```
Public Sub GetOrders() 
 
 Dim dbs As DAO.Database 
 Dim qdf As DAO.QueryDef 
 Dim strSQL As String 
 
 Set dbs = CurrentDb 
 strSQL = "SELECT * FROM Orders WHERE OrderDate >#3-31-2006#;" 
 Set qdf = dbs.CreateQueryDef("SecondQuarter", strSQL) 
 
End Sub
```

The next example creates the same  **QueryDef** object by using a value stored in a variable. Note that the number signs (#) that denote the date values must be included in the string so that they are concatenated with the date value.




```
Dim dbs As Database, qdf As QueryDef, strSQL As String 
Dim dteStart As Date 
dteStart = #3-31-2006# 
Set dbs = CurrentDb 
strSQL = "SELECT * FROM Orders WHERE OrderDate" _ 
 &amp; "> #" &amp; dteStart &amp; "#;" 
Set qdf = dbs.CreateQueryDef("SecondQuarter", strSQL)
```

The following example creates a  **QueryDef** object by using a value in a control called OrderDate on an Orders form. Note that you provide the full reference to the control, and that you include the number signs that denote the date within the string.




```
Dim dbs As Database, qdf As QueryDef, strSQL As String 
Set dbs = CurrentDb 
strSQL = "SELECT * FROM Orders WHERE OrderDate" _ 
 &amp; "> #" &amp; Forms!Orders!OrderDate &amp; "#;" 
Set qdf = dbs.CreateQueryDef("SecondQuarter", strSQL)
```


## Building SQL Statements With ADO

In this section, we will build the same statements as in the previous section, but this time using ADO as the data access method.

The following example shows how to create a  **QueryDef** object with a simple SQL statement. This query returns all orders from an Orders table that were placed after 3-31-2006:




```
Dim dbs As Database, qdf As QueryDef, strSQL As String 
Set dbs = CurrentDb 
strSQL = "SELECT * FROM Orders WHERE OrderDate >#3-31-2006#;" 
Set qdf = dbs.CreateQueryDef("SecondQuarter", strSQL)
```

The next example creates the same  **QueryDef** object by using a value stored in a variable. Note that the number signs (#) that denote the date values must be included in the string so that they are concatenated with the date value.




```
Dim dbs As Database, qdf As QueryDef, strSQL As String 
Dim dteStart As Date 
dteStart = #3-31-2006# 
Set dbs = CurrentDb 
strSQL = "SELECT * FROM Orders WHERE OrderDate" _ 
 &amp; "> #" &amp; dteStart &amp; "#;" 
Set qdf = dbs.CreateQueryDef("SecondQuarter", strSQL)
```

The following example creates a  **QueryDef** object by using a value in a control called OrderDate on an Orders form. Note that you provide the full reference to the control, and that you include the number signs that denote the date within the string.




```
Dim dbs As Database, qdf As QueryDef, strSQL As String 
Set dbs = CurrentDb 
strSQL = "SELECT * FROM Orders WHERE OrderDate" _ 
 &amp; "> #" &amp; Forms!Orders!OrderDate &amp; "#;" 
Set qdf = dbs.CreateQueryDef("SecondQuarter", strSQL)
```

