
# Move Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Moves the position of the current record in a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _recordset_. **Move** _ NumRecords_, _Start_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _NumRecords_
    
- A signed  **Long** expression that specifies the number of records that the current record position moves.
    
-  _Start_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value or **Variant** that evaluates to a bookmark. You can also use a[BookmarkEnum](75cf5edd-bcb6-ab61-8703-73775cce91de.md) value.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The  **Move** method is supported on all **Recordset** objects.

If the  _NumRecords_ argument is greater than zero, the current record position moves forward (toward the end of the **Recordset** ). If _NumRecords_ is less than zero, the current record position moves backward (toward the beginning of the **Recordset** ).

If the  **Move** call would move the current record position to a point before the first record, ADO sets the current record to the position before the first record in the recordset ([BOF](f797e140-5572-1a4d-9afc-285f6a3868a8.md) is **True** ). An attempt to move backward when the **BOF** property is already **True** generates an error.

If the  **Move** call would move the current record position to a point after the last record, ADO sets the current record to the position after the last record in the recordset ([EOF](f797e140-5572-1a4d-9afc-285f6a3868a8.md) is **True** ). An attempt to move forward when the **EOF** property is already **True** generates an error.

Calling the  **Move** method from an empty **Recordset** object generates an error.

If you pass the  _Start_ argument, the move is relative to the record with this bookmark, assuming the **Recordset** object supports bookmarks. If not specified, the move is relative to the current record.

If you are using the [CacheSize](42f86cc0-30dc-669b-9e65-5e7ecd52c4d7.md) property to locally cache records from the provider, passing a _NumRecords_ argument that moves the current record position outside the current group of cached records forces ADO to retrieve a new group of records, starting from the destination record. The **CacheSize** property determines the size of the newly retrieved group, and the destination record is the first record retrieved.

If the  **Recordset** object is forward only, a user can still pass a _NumRecords_ argument less than zero, provided the destination is within the current set of cached records. If the **Move** call would move the current record position to a record before the first cached record, an error will occur. Thus, you can use a record cache that supports full scrolling over a provider that supports only forward scrolling. Because cached records are loaded into memory, you should avoid caching more records than is necessary. Even if a forward-only **Recordset** object supports backward moves in this way, calling the[MovePrevious](d04ce41c-77c9-df42-115a-65c50a38518a.md) method on any forward-only **Recordset** object will still generate an error.


 **Note**  Support for moving backwards in a forward-only  **Recordset** is not predictable, depending upon your provider. If the current record has been postioned after the last record in the **Recordset**, **Move** backwards may not result in the correct current position.

