
# Deleting Records Using the Delete Method

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Using the  **Delete** method marks the current record or a group of records in a **Recordset** object for deletion. If the **Recordset** object does not allow record deletion, an error occurs. If you are in immediate update mode, deletions occur in the database immediately. If a record cannot be successfully deleted (due to database integrity violations, for example), the record will remain in edit mode after the call to **Update**. This means that you must cancel the update using[CancelUpdate](2bd4d168-ba52-7786-5046-44febeda88e1.md) before moving off the current record (for example, using[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md), [Move](1f858654-5fa3-273d-7cdc-574c5f09a420.md), or [NextRecordset](d2776dd5-d521-c57f-dbe5-e02ee238104d.md)).

If you are in batch update mode, the records are marked for deletion from the cache and the actual deletion happens when you call the  **UpdateBatch** method. (To view the deleted records, set the **Filter** property to **adFilterAffectedRecords** after **Delete** is called.)
Attempting to retrieve field values from the deleted record generates an error. After deleting the current record, the deleted record remains current until you move to a different record. Once you move away from the deleted record, it is no longer accessible.
If you nest deletions in a transaction, you can recover deleted records by using the  **RollbackTrans** method. If you are in batch update mode, you can cancel a pending deletion or group of pending deletions by using the **CancelBatch** method.
If the attempt to delete records fails because of a conflict with the underlying data (for example, a record has already been deleted by another user), the provider returns warnings to the  **Errors** collection but does not halt program execution. A run-time error occurs only if there are conflicts on all the requested records.
If the  **Unique Table** dynamic property is set and the **Recordset** is the result of executing a JOIN operation on multiple tables, the **Delete** method will delete rows only from the table named in the **Unique Table** property.
The  **Delete** method takes an optional argument that allows you to specify which records are affected by the **Delete** operation. The only valid values for this argument are either of the following ADO **AffectEnum** enumerated constants:

-  **adAffectCurrent** Affects only the current record.
    
-  **adAffectGroup** Affects only records that satisfy the current **Filter** property setting. The **Filter** property must be set to a **FilterGroupEnum** value or an array of **Bookmarks** to use this option.
    
The following code shows an example of specifying  **adAffectGroup** when calling the **Delete** method. This example adds some records to the sample **Recordset** and updates the database. Then it filters the **Recordset** using the **adFilterAffectedRecords** filter enumerated constant, which leaves only the newly added records visible in the **Recordset**. Finally, it calls the **Delete** method and specifies that all of the records that satisfy the current **Filter** property setting (the new records) should be deleted.



```vb
'BeginDeleteGroup 
 'add some bogus records 
 With objRs1 
 For i = 0 To 8 
 .AddNew 
 .Fields("CompanyName") = "Shipper Number " &; i + 1 
 .Fields("Phone") = "(425) 555-000" &; (i + 1) 
 .Update 
 Next i 
 
 're-connect &; update 
 .ActiveConnection = GetNewConnection 
 .UpdateBatch 
 
 'filter on newly added records 
 .Filter = adFilterAffectedRecords 
 Debug.Print "Deleting the " &; .RecordCount &; _ 
 " records you just added." 
 
 'delete the newly added bogus records 
 .Delete adAffectGroup 
 .Filter = adFilterNone 
 Debug.Print .RecordCount &; " records remain." 
 
 .Close 
 End With 
'EndDeleteGroup 

```

