
# ObjectFrame.SourceDoc Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **SourceDoc** property to specify the file to create a link to or to embed when you create a linked object or embedded object by using the **Action**property in Visual Basic. Read/write  **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **SourceDoc**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **ObjectFrame** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

For an embedded object, enter the full path and file name for the file you want to use as a template and set the  **Action** property to **acOLECreateEmbed**.

For a linked object, enter the full path and file name of the file to create a link to and set the  **Action** property to **acOLECreateLink**.

While this property appears in the property sheet, it takes effect only after the  **Action** property is set in a macro or by using Visual Basic.

You can use the  **SourceDoc** property to specify the file to create a link to and the control's **SourceItem**property to specify the data within that file. If you want to create a link to the entire object, leave the  **SourceItem** property blank.

When a linked unbound object is created, the control's  **SourceItem** property setting is concatenated with its **SourceItem** property setting. In Form view, Datasheet view, and Print Preview, the control's **SourceItem** property setting is a zero-length string (" "), and its **SourceDoc** property setting is the full path to the linked file, followed by an exclamation point (!) or a backslash ( **\**) and the  **SourceItem** property setting, as in the following example:




```
"C:\Work\Qtr1\Revenue.xls!R1C1:R30C15"
```


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example creates a linked OLE object using an unbound object frame named  `OLE1` and sizes the control to display the object's entire contents when the user clicks a command button.


```
Sub Command1_Click 
 OLE1.Class = "Excel.Sheet" ' Set class name. 
 ' Specify type of object. 
 OLE1.OLETypeAllowed = acOLELinked 
 ' Specify source file. 
 OLE1.SourceDoc = "C:\Excel\Oletext.xls" 
 ' Specify data to create link to. 
 OLE1.SourceItem = "R1C1:R5C5" 
 ' Create linked object. 
 OLE1.Action = acOLECreateLink 
 ' Adjust control size. 
 OLE1.SizeMode = acOLESizeZoom 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ObjectFrame Object](0eb85477-58d7-249a-2bf7-f2f3960a45a9.md)
#### Other resources


 [ObjectFrame Object Members](65229083-68ec-b870-50f4-a6c329259a39.md)
