
# Set Form, Report, and Control Properties in Code

 **Last modified:** July 30, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013_

 **In this article**
 [To set a property of a form or report](#sectionSection0)
 [To set a property of a control](#sectionSection1)
 [To set a property of a form or report section](#sectionSection2)


 ** [Form](72EF9219-142B-B690-B696-3EBA9A5D4522.md)** , ** [Report](6F77C1B4-A9CE-7CAA-204C-FE0755C6F9DF.md)** , and ** [Control](CE2362E5-4390-590E-06C0-6F27E8D988CD.md)** objects are Access objects. You can set properties for these objects from within a **Sub**,  **Function**, or event procedure. You can also set properties for form and report sections.

## To set a property of a form or report
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

Refer to the individual form or report within the  ** [Forms](A41AF7BE-873C-EF8B-20CD-24B78A25B5CA.md)** or ** [Reports](37C5F55E-3C3A-6140-D305-7E8118D9D2B1.md)** collection, followed by the name of the property and its value. For example, to set the ** [Visible](85567666-297A-3380-2D08-864D44B637A1.md)** property of the Customers form to **True** (-1), use the following line of code:


```
Forms!Customers.Visible = True
```

You can also set a property of a form or report from within the object's module by using the object's  **Me** property. Code that uses the **Me** property executes faster than code that uses a fully qualified object name. For example, to set the ** [RecordSource](A473695A-7645-744D-BF69-760E1F2B9FB1.md)** property of the Customers form to an SQL statement that returns all records with a CompanyName field entry beginning with "A" from within the Customers form module, use the following line of code:




```
Me.RecordSource = "SELECT * FROM Customers " _ 
    &amp; "WHERE CompanyName Like 'A*'"
```


## To set a property of a control
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Refer to the control in the  ** [Controls](08A31B50-B644-5912-D784-130F58298DD0.md)** collection of the **Form** or **Report** object on which it resides. You can refer to the **Controls** collection either implicitly or explicitly, but the code executes faster if you use an implicit reference. The following examples set the **Visible** property of a text box called CustomerID on the Customers form:


```
' Faster method. 
Me!CustomerID.Visible = True
```


```
' Slower method. 
Forms!Customers.Controls!CustomerID.Visible = True
```

The fastest way to set a property of a control is from within an object's module by using the object's  **Me** property. For example, you can use the following code to toggle the **Visible** property of a text box called CustomerID on the Customers form:




```
With Me!CustomerID 
    .Visible = Not .Visible 
End With
```


## To set a property of a form or report section
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Refer to the form or report within the  **Forms** or **Reports** collection, followed by the **Section** property and the integer or constant that identifies the section. The following examples set the **Visible** property of the page header section of the Customers form to **False**:


```
Forms!Customers.Section(3).Visible = False
```


```
Me!Section(acPageHeader).Visible = False
```


- For each property you want to set, you can look up the property in the Help index to find information about:
    
      - Whether you can set the property from Visual Basic.
    
  - Views in which you can set the property. Not all properties can be set in all views. For example, you can set a form's  **BorderStyle** property only in form Design view.
    
  - Which values you should use to set the property. You often use different settings when you set a property in Visual Basic instead of in the property sheet. For example, if the property settings are selections from a list, you must use the value or numeric equivalent for each selection.
    
- To set default properties for controls from Visual Basic, use the  **DefaultControl** property.
    
