
# OptionButton.OptionValue Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Each control in an option group has a numeric value that you can set with the  **OptionValue** property. Read/write **Long**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **OptionValue**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **OptionButton** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

When the control is selected, the number is assigned to the option group. If the option group is bound to a field, the value of the selected control's  **OptionValue** property is stored in the field.

For example, this  **Region** option group is bound to the Region field in a table. The **Europe** button has an **OptionValue** property setting of 1, the **Asia** button has a setting of 2, and the **Africa** button has a setting of 3. When one of these buttons is selected, the **Region** option group value will be the same as the **OptionValue** property setting for the selected control. In this case, because the **Region** option group is bound to the Region field, the value of this field in the table also equals 2.

The  **OptionValue** property applies only to the check box, option button, and toggle button controls in an option group.

Unless you change the  **OptionValue** property yourself, the first control you place in an option group has a value of 1, the second control has a value of 2, and so on.

The  **OptionValue** property is only available when the control is placed inside an option group control. When a check box, a toggle button, or an option button isn't in an option group, the control has no **OptionValue** property. Instead, each such control has a **ControlSource**property, and the value of each control will be either  **True** if selected or **False** if not selected.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the  **OptionValue** property for three option buttons in the "Ship Method Group" option group when a form opens. When an option button is selected in the option group, a message displays indicating the shipper's assigned ID number.


```
Private Sub Form_Open(Cancel As Integer) 
 
 Me.Controls("ABC Couriers").OptionValue = 15876 
 Me.Controls("Speedy Delivery").OptionValue = 742 
 Me.Controls("Lightning Express").OptionValue = 1256 
 
End Sub 
 
Private Sub Ship_Method_Group_Click() 
 
 MsgBox "The ID for the selected shipper is " &amp; Me.Controls("Ship Method Group").Value 
 
End Sub 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [OptionButton Object](661ada74-d044-4a5c-2bdd-2dddfc2e79ab.md)
#### Other resources


 [OptionButton Object Members](5173d5c5-b898-97ee-a005-7f5a4d77efa1.md)
