
# Connection.CreateQueryDef Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Creates a new  **[QueryDef](0b3d901c-345d-42a2-f5f1-fb09cc562e27.md)** object.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **CreateQueryDef**( ** _Name_**, ** _SQLText_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Connection** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Name_|Optional|**Variant**|A  **Variant** ( **String** subtype) that uniquely names the new **QueryDef**.|
| _SQLText_|Optional|**Variant**|A  **Variant** ( **String** subtype) that is an SQL statement defining the **QueryDef**. If you omit this argument, you can define the **QueryDef** by setting its **[SQL](16446789-c8be-bff0-eddd-b5f6a8530128.md)** property before or after you append it to a collection.|

### Return Value

QueryDef


## Remarks

In a Microsoft Access workspace, if you provide anything other than a zero-length string for the name when you create a  **QueryDef**, the resulting **QueryDef** object is automatically appended to the **[QueryDefs](6178c3a6-8301-16bf-4657-0fb113de0a36.md)** collection.

If the object specified by  _name_ is already a member of the **QueryDefs** collection, a run-time error occurs. You can create a temporary **QueryDef** by using a zero-length string for the _name_ argument when you execute the **CreateQueryDef** method. You can also accomplish this by setting the **[Name](5f4a95cd-63a3-aedf-df64-793158b2283d.md)** property of a newly created **QueryDef** to a zero-length string (""). Temporary **QueryDef** objects are useful if you want to repeatedly use dynamic SQL statements without having to create any new permanent objects in the **QueryDefs** collection. You can't append a temporary **QueryDef** to any collection because a zero-length string isn't a valid name for a permanent **QueryDef** object. You can always set the **Name** and **SQL** properties of the newly created **QueryDef** object and subsequently append the **QueryDef** to the **QueryDefs** collection.

To run the SQL statement in a  **QueryDef** object, use the **[Execute](d6140d4e-fa14-6455-525e-49d8aab3dff7.md)** or **[OpenRecordset](584a3e00-7589-90f1-aa6a-5d6116f0b5b6.md)** method.

Using a  **QueryDef** object is the preferred way to perform SQL pass-through queries with ODBC databases.

To remove a  **QueryDef** object from a **QueryDefs** collection in a Microsoft Access database engine database, use the **[Delete](a8e249e7-7526-3eff-a5cf-70cab2081970.md)** method on the collection.

