
# CommandButton.BorderColor Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **BorderColor** property to specify the color of a control's border. Read/write **Long**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **BorderColor**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **CommandButton** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **BorderColor** property setting is a numeric expression that corresponds to the color you want to use for a control's border.

You can set the default for this property by using a control's default control style or the  **DefaultControl**property in Visual Basic.

A control's border color is visible only when its  **SpecialEffect**property is set to Flat or Shadowed. If the  **SpecialEffect** property is set to something other than Flat or Shadowed, setting the **BorderColor** property changes the **SpecialEffect** property setting to Flat.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **RGB** function to set the **BorderColor**,  **BackColor**, and  **ForeColor** properties depending on the value of the `txtPastDue` text box. You can also use the QBColor function to set these properties. Putting the following code in the Form_Current( ) event sets the control display characteristics as soon as the user opens a form or moves to a new record.


```
Sub Form_Current() 
 Dim curAmntDue As Currency, lngBlack As Long 
 Dim lngRed As Long, lngYellow As Long, lngWhite As Long 
 
 If Not IsNull(Me!txtPastDue.Value) Then 
 curAmntDue = Me!txtPastDue.Value 
 Else 
 Exit Sub 
 End If 
 lngRed = RGB(255, 0, 0) 
 lngBlack = RGB(0, 0, 0) 
 lngYellow = RGB(255, 255, 0) 
 lngWhite = RGB(255, 255, 255) 
 If curAmntDue > 100 Then 
 Me!txtPastDue.BorderColor = lngRed 
 Me!txtPastDue.ForeColor = lngRed 
 Me!txtPastDue.BackColor = lngYellow 
 Else 
 Me!txtPastDue.BorderColor = lngBlack 
 Me!txtPastDue.ForeColor = lngBlack 
 Me!txtPastDue.BackColor = lngWhite 
 End If 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [CommandButton Object](25e7c0b7-03c1-dffe-8f52-4ec59739f6b8.md)
#### Other resources


 [CommandButton Object Members](9e1c10e6-0d03-78fd-ac9d-3f086ce1e0f5.md)
