
# ODBCConnection.Refresh Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Refreshes an ODBC connection.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Refresh**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **ODBCConnection** object.


## Remarks

When making the connection to the ODBC data source, Microsoft Excel uses the connection string specified by the  ** [Connection](2fcd1043-b088-cfde-9853-4a20da20be26.md)**property. If the specified connection string is missing required values, dialog boxes will be displayed to prompt the user for the required information. If the  ** [DisplayAlerts](d9f36a99-e9c9-9a67-abaf-9c8e49b4febc.md)**property is  **False**, dialog boxes are not displayed and the  **Refresh** method fails with the Insufficient Connection Information exception.

After Microsoft Excel makes a successful connection, it stores the completed connection string so that prompts will not be displayed for subsequent calls to the  **Refresh** method during the same editing session. You can obtain the completed connection string by examining the value of the ** [Connection](2fcd1043-b088-cfde-9853-4a20da20be26.md)**property.

After the database connection is made, the SQL query is validated. If the query is not valid, the  **Refresh** method fails with the SQL Syntax Error exception.

If the query requires parameters, the  ** [Parameters](d67147f1-d587-a9e4-ed8e-8a1140e8a868.md)**collection must be initialized with parameter binding information before the  **Refresh** method is called. If not enough parameters have been bound, the **Refresh** method fails with the Parameter Error exception. If parameters are set to prompt for their values, dialog boxes are displayed to the user regardless of the setting of the ** [DisplayAlerts](d9f36a99-e9c9-9a67-abaf-9c8e49b4febc.md)**property. If the user cancels a parameter dialog box, the  **Refresh** method halts and returns **False**. If extra parameters are bound with the  **Parameters** collection, these extra parameters are ignored.

The  **Refresh** method returns **True** if the query is successfully completed or started; it returns **False** if the user cancels a connection or parameter dialog box.

To see whether the number of fetched rows exceeded the number of available rows on the worksheet, examine the  ** [FetchedRowOverflow](386aaf06-27d4-bfa1-cf5e-ac8c8bddef44.md)**property. This property is initialized every time the  **Refresh** method is called.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [ODBCConnection Object](b880ebec-15a4-5a3d-ef02-db73106db9c9.md)
#### Other resources


 [ODBCConnection Object Members](d13b91f3-a89f-7dd7-7a98-f1d952f3b047.md)
