
# Jumping to a Record

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

The [Move](1f858654-5fa3-273d-7cdc-574c5f09a420.md) method allows you to move forward or backward in the **Recordset** a specified number of records by using the following syntax:




```
 
oRs.Move NumRecords , Start
```

The  **Move** method is supported on all **Recordset** objects.
If the  _NumRecords_ argument is greater than zero, the current record position moves forward (toward the end of the **Recordset** ). If _NumRecords_ is less than zero, the current record position moves backward (toward the beginning of the **Recordset** ).
If the  **Move** call would move the current record position to a point before the first record, ADO sets the current record to the position before the first record in the **Recordset** ( **BOF** is **True** ). An attempt to move backward when the **BOF** property is already **True** generates an error.
If the  **Move** call would move the current record position to a point after the last record, ADO sets the current record to the position after the last record in the **Recordset** ( **EOF** is **True** ). An attempt to move forward when the **EOF** property is already **True** generates an error.
Calling the  **Move** method from an empty **Recordset** object generates an error.
If you pass a bookmark in the  _Start_ argument, the move is relative to the record with this bookmark, assuming the **Recordset** object supports bookmarks. A bookmark is obtained by using the[Bookmark](101b2ce1-21d8-aa79-e530-20f9d1c73fc8.md) property. If not specified, the move is relative to the current record.
If you are using the  **CacheSize** property to locally cache records from the provider, passing a _NumRecords_ argument that moves the current record position outside the current group of cached records forces ADO to retrieve a new group of records, starting from the destination record. The **CacheSize** property determines the size of the newly retrieved group, and the destination record is the first record retrieved.
