
# ComboBox.Text Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **Text** property to set or return the text contained in the text box portion of a combo box. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Text**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ComboBox** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can set the  **Text** property to the text you want to display in the control. You can also use the **Text** property to read the text currently in the control.


 **Note**  To set or return a control's  **Text** property, the control must have the focus, or an error occurs. To move the focus to a control, you can use the **SetFocus**method or GoToControl action.

While the control has the focus, the  **Text** property contains the text data currently in the control; the **Value**property contains the last saved data for the control. When you move the focus to another control, the control's data is updated, and the  **Value** property is set to this new value. The **Text** property setting is then unavailable until the control gets the focus again. If you use the **Save Record** command on the **Records** menu to save the data in the control without moving the focus, the **Text** property and **Value** property settings will be the same.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **Text** property to enable a Next button named `btnNext` whenever the user enters text into a text box named `txtName`. Anytime the text box is empty, the Next button is disabled.


```
Sub txtName_Change() 
 btnNext.Enabled = Len(Me!txtName.Text &amp; "")<>0 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ComboBox Object](1cf508d5-023e-eb38-3991-71e82b2a4e7e.md)
#### Other resources


 [ComboBox Object Members](d0d83ca3-3698-295e-5335-7d0816557d6b.md)
