
# Cellset Object (ADO MD)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Represents the results of a multidimensional query. It is a collection of cells selected from cubes or other cellsets.

## Remarks

Data within a  **Cellset** is retrieved using direct, array-like access. You can "drill down" to a specific member to obtain data about that member. For example, the following code returns the caption of the first member in the first position on the first axis of a cellset named cst:


```
cst.Axes(0).Positions(0).Members(0).Caption


```

There is no notion of a current cell within a cellset. Instead, the [Item](47510643-47af-0bfd-dc1f-ab984057bcd3.md) property retrieves a specific[Cell](b9d00b71-1f40-5bd1-4b89-fbdb59c552ba.md) object from the cellset. The arguments of the **Item** property determine which cell is retrieved. You can specify the unique ordinal value of a cell. You can also retrieve cells by using their position numbers along each axis of the cellset. For more information about retrieving cells, see the[Item](47510643-47af-0bfd-dc1f-ab984057bcd3.md) property.

With the collections, methods, and properties of a  **Cellset** object, you can do the following:


- Associate an open connection with a  **Cellset** object by setting its[ActiveConnection](d09f0f91-5e1d-01ed-4d83-eaf58ff718a2.md) property.
    
- Execute and retrieve the results of a multidimensional query with the [Open](12395ff6-fe07-325a-2b69-007aa0b11ee6.md) method.
    
- Retrieve a  **Cell** from the **Cellset** with the[Item](47510643-47af-0bfd-dc1f-ab984057bcd3.md) property.
    
- Return the [Axis](a4332b69-8900-08f1-a4e2-9395d005ed42.md) objects that define the **Cellset** with the[Axes](7c719197-45f1-a5b9-665d-25cb693b1eb0.md) collection.
    
- Retrieve information about the dimensions used to filter the data in the  **Cellset** with the[FilterAxis](36720d77-4b16-1d17-6d80-d35265f4a8ad.md) property.
    
- Return or specify the query used to define the  **Cellset** with the[Source](956e8bf4-a1af-3202-b289-61073a14ee6c.md) property.
    
- Return the current state of the  **Cellset** (open, closed, executing, or connecting) with the[State](4df09f45-9b62-33ce-b4ed-230e41eaac7a.md) property.
    
- Close an open  **Cellset** with the[Close](683788b0-0a96-a165-6b49-8d7036850756.md) method.
    
- Retrieve provider-specific information about the  **Cellset** with the standard ADO[Properties](4d662790-1252-c930-e6f9-edf6a38636af.md) collection.
    
