
# ObjectFrame.UpdateOptions Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **UpdateOptions** property to specify how a linkedOLE object is updated. Read/write **Integer**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **UpdateOptions**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **ObjectFrame** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **UpdateOptions** property uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Visual Basic**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Automatic| **acOLEUpdateAutomatic**|(Default) Updates the object each time the linked data changes.|
|Manual| **acOLEUpdateManual**|Updates the object only when the control's  **Action**property is set to  **acOLEUpdate** or the link is updated with the **OLE/DDE Links** command on the **Edit** menu.|
Normally, the object is updated automatically whenever the linked data changes, but you can tell Microsoft Access to update the data only when it receives a specific instruction to do so. For example, if other users or applications can access or change linked spreadsheet data on a form, you can use this property to specify that the linked data only be updated when the database is opened in single-user mode.

When the  **UpdateOptions** property is set to Manual, updates don't occur based on the setting of the **Refresh interval** box on the **Advanced** tab of the **Options** dialog box, available by clicking **Options** on the **Tools** menu.


 **Note**  When an object's data is changed, the  **Updated**event occurs.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the  **UpdateOptions** property for an unbound object frame named OLE1 to update manually, and then uses the **Action** property to force an update of the OLE object in the control.


```
OLE1.UpdateOptions = acOLEUpdateManual 
OLE1.Action = acOLEUpdate
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ObjectFrame Object](0eb85477-58d7-249a-2bf7-f2f3960a45a9.md)
#### Other resources


 [ObjectFrame Object Members](65229083-68ec-b870-50f4-a6c329259a39.md)
