
# WillChangeRecordset and RecordsetChangeComplete Events (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



The  **WillChangeRecordset** event is called before a pending operation changes the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md). The  **RecordsetChangeComplete** event is called after the **Recordset** has changed.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **WillChangeRecordset** _adReason_, _adStatus_, _pRecordset_

 **RecordsetChangeComplete** _adReason_, _pError_, _adStatus_, _pRecordset_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _adReason_
    
- An [EventReasonEnum](0639928e-d0ef-3db3-887e-f3da03913bc7.md) value that specifies the reason for this event. Its value can be **adRsnRequery**, **adRsnResynch**, **adRsnClose**, **adRsnOpen**.
    
-  _adStatus_
    
- [EventStatusEnum](ae1711bc-2af5-04fd-7d8c-222d8afc9d3d.md)
    
    When  **WillChangeRecordset** is called, this parameter is set to **adStatusOK** if the operation that caused the event was successful. It is set to **adStatusCantDeny** if this event cannot request cancellation of the pending operation.
    
    When  **RecordsetChangeComplete** is called, this parameter is set to **adStatusOK** if the operation that caused the event was successful, **adStatusErrorsOccurred** if the operation failed, or **adStatusCancel** if the operation associated with the previously accepted **WillChangeRecordset** event has been canceled.
    
    Before  **WillChangeRecordset** returns, set this parameter to **adStatusCancel** to request cancellation of the pending operation or set this parameter to adStatusUnwantedEvent to prevent subsequent notifications.
    
    Before  **WillChangeRecordset** or **RecordsetChangeComplete** returns, set this parameter to **adStatusUnwantedEvent** to prevent subsequent notifications.
    
-  _pError_
    
- An [Error](97e478bf-8b25-03a8-9358-abba5069cba3.md) object. It describes the error that occurred if the value of _adStatus_ is **adStatusErrorsOccurred**; otherwise it is not set.
    
-  _pRecordset_
    
- A  **Recordset** object. The **Recordset** for which this event occurred.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

A  **WillChangeRecordset** or **RecordsetChangeComplete** event may occur due to the **Recordset**[Requery](1062d907-979f-020a-b2ed-94e11c0e7d08.md) or[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md) methods.

If the provider does not support bookmarks, a  **RecordsetChange** event notification occurs each time new rows are retrieved from the provider. The frequency of this event depends on the **RecordsetCacheSize** property.

You must set the  **adStatus** parameter to **adStatusUnwantedEvent** for each possible **adReason** value in order to completely stop event notification for any event that includes an **adReason** parameter.

