
# AccessObjectProperties Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **AccessObjectProperties** collection contains all of the custom ** [AccessObjectProperty](b1a44d34-8ca1-af7d-1878-f2c14fb481f7.md)** objects of a specific instance of an object. These **AccessObjectProperty** objects (which are often just called properties) uniquely characterize that instance of the object.

## Remarks

Use the  **AccessObjectProperties** collection in Visual Basic or in an expression to refer to properties of the **CurrentProject**,  **CodeProject**, or  **AccessObject** object. For example, you can enumerate the **AccessObjectProperties** collection to set or return the values of properties of an individual report.


 **Note**  The  **AccessObjectProperties** collection isn't accessible for objects derived from the **CurrentData** object (for example, `CurrentData.AllTables!Table1`). For objects derived in this manner, you can only access their built-in properties by direct calls to the desired property (for example,  `CurrentData.AllTables!Table1.Name`).

To add a user-defined property to an existing instance of an object, first define its characteristics and add it to the collection with the  ** [Add](8f86d5f8-b9af-87d3-fae4-e1a24d7225b6.md)** method. Referencing a user-defined **AccessObjectProperty** object that has not yet been appended to an **AccessObjectProperties** collection will cause an error, as will appending a user-defined AccessObjectProperty object to an **AccessObjectProperties** collection containing an **AccessObjectProperty** object of the same name.

You can use the  ** [Remove](c06fff7c-2e68-1955-f151-27e105e4be6a.md)** method to remove user-defined properties from the **AccessObjectProperties** collection.


 **Note**  A built-in or user-defined  **AccessObjectProperty** object is associated only with the specific instance of an object. The property isn't defined for all instances of objects of the selected type.

To refer to a built-in or user-defined  **AccessObjectProperty** object in a collection by its ordinal number or by its **Name** property setting, use any of the following syntax forms:




```
CurrentProject.AllForms("Form1").Properties(0) 
CurrentProject.AllForms("Form1").Properties("name") 
CurrentProject.AllForms("Form1").Properties![name]
```

With the same syntax forms, you can also refer to the Value property of a  **AccessObjectProperty** object. The context of the reference will determine whether you are referring to the **AccessObjectProperty** object itself or the ** [Value](6c1dde37-814f-f3e8-8afb-b5ac5018b2d3.md)** property of the **AccessObjectProperty** object.


 **Note**  Properties in the  **AccessObjectProperties** collection are not stored and can be lost when the object they are associated with is checked in or out using the Source Code Control add-in.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [AccessObjectProperties Object Members](99fcb5dc-6968-c635-9729-4958043a897c.md)
