
# Recordset2.CacheStart Property (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Sets or returns a value that specifies the bookmark of the first record in a dynaset-type Recordset object containing data to be locally cached from an ODBC data source (Microsoft Access workspaces only).


## Syntax

 _expression_. **CacheStart**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset2** object.


## Remarks

Data caching improves performance if you use  **Recordset** objects to retrieve data from a remote server. A cache is a space in local memory that holds the data most recently retrieved from the server; this is useful if users request the data again while the application is running. When users request data, the Microsoft Access database engine checks the cache for the requested data first rather than retrieving it from the server, which takes more time. The cache only saves data that comes from an ODBC data source.

Any Microsoft Access database engine-connected ODBC data source, such as a linked table, can have a local cache. To create the cache, open a  **Recordset** object from the remote data source, set the **CacheSize** and **[CacheStart](2e9c2b0d-b382-e4d6-9406-ace0e538a7b7.md)** properties, and then use the **[FillCache](28a70997-a8d4-73e6-171a-61286e3d3485.md)** method, or step through the records by using the **Move** methods.

The  **CacheStart** property setting is the bookmark of the first record in the **Recordset** object to be cached. You can use the bookmark of any record to set the **CacheStart** property. Make the record you want to start the cache the current record, and set the **CacheStart** property equal to the **[Bookmark](7366d550-2f72-ed10-b230-eb144a6f874b.md)** property.

The Microsoft Access database engine requests records within the cache range from the cache, and it requests records outside the cache range from the server.

Records retrieved from the cache don't reflect changes made concurrently to the source data by other users.

To force an update of all the cached data, set the  **CacheSize** property of the **Recordset** object to 0, re-set it to the size of the cache you originally requested, and then use the **FillCache** method.

