
# ObjectFrame.DisplayType Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **DisplayType** property to specify whether Microsoft Access displays an OLE object's content or an icon. Read/write **Boolean**.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **DisplayType**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **ObjectFrame** object.


## Remarks

For example, if the OLE object is a Microsoft Word document and you set this property to Content, the control displays the Word document; if you set this property to Icon, the control displays the Microsoft Word icon.

The  **DisplayType** property uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Visual Basic**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Content| **acOLEDisplayContent**|(Default) When the control contains an OLE object, the control displays the object's data, such as a document or spreadsheet.|
|Icon| **acOLEDisplayIcon**|When the control contains an OLE object, the control displays the object's icon.|
The  **DisplayType** property determines the default setting of the **Display As Icon** check box in the **Paste Special** dialog box, available by clicking **Paste Special** on the **Edit** menu, and the **Insert Object** dialog box, displayed when inserting an unbound object frame. When you display these dialog boxes in Form view, Datasheet view, or Design view, the **Display As Icon** check box is automatically selected if the **DisplayType** property is set to Icon. For example, you will see these boxes selected when using Visual Basic to set the control's **Action**property to  **acOLEInsertObjDlg** or **acOLEPasteSpecialDlg**.

The  **DisplayType** property setting has no effect on the state of the **Display As Icon** check box in the **Object** dialog box when you insert an object into an unbound object frame. When you paste an object from the Clipboard, the **Display As Icon** check box reflects the state of the object on the Clipboard.

Changing the  **DisplayType** property of a bound object frame doesn't affect the display of existing objects in the control. However, it will affect new objects that you add to the control by using the **Object** command on the **Insert** menu.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [ObjectFrame Object](0eb85477-58d7-249a-2bf7-f2f3960a45a9.md)
#### Other resources


 [ObjectFrame Object Members](65229083-68ec-b870-50f4-a6c329259a39.md)
