
# AllModules Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **AllModules** collection contains an ** [AccessObject](8a770b33-5bff-120a-6707-ca214ee5ced3.md)**of each module in the  ** [CurrentProject](e6baae73-1eeb-b48f-d35e-b3e921378561.md)**or  ** [CodeProject](70b71f57-df23-2cf7-23f5-147053a8ec26.md)**object.

## Remarks

The  **CurrentProject** or **CodeProject** object has an **AllModules** collection containing **AccessObject** objects that describe instances of all the **Module** objects specified by **CurrentProject** or **CodeProject**. For example, you can enumerate the  **AllModules** collection in Visual Basic to set or return the values of properties of individual **AccessObject** objects in the collection.

You can refer to an individual  **AccessObject** object in the **AllModules** collection either by referring to the object by name, or by referring to its index within the collection. If you want to refer to a specific object in the **AllModules** collection, it's better to refer to the module by name because a module's collection index may change.

The  **AllModules** collection is indexed beginning with zero. If you refer to a module by its index, the first module is AllModules(0), the second module is AllModules(1), and so on.


 **Note**   To list all open modules in the database, use the ** [IsLoaded](5e68398c-8a95-f3e1-87ec-e2d637f34429.md)**property of each  **AccessObject** object in the **AllModules** collection. You can then use the **Name**property of each individual  **AccessObject** object to return the name of a module.

You can't add or delete an  **AccessObject** object from the **AllModules** collection.


## Example

The following example prints the name of each open  **AccessObject** object in the **AllModules** collection.


```
Sub AllModules() 
 Dim obj As AccessObject, dbs As Object 
 Set dbs = Application.CurrentProject 
 ' Search for open AccessObject objects in AllModules collection. 
 For Each obj In dbs.AllModules 
 If obj.IsLoaded = True Then 
 ' Print name of obj. 
 Debug.Print obj.Name 
 End If 
 Next obj 
End Sub
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [AllModules Object Members](33eaed0b-df68-75d8-cba0-0a4b5ef64359.md)
