
# Recordset2.MoveLast Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Moves to the last record in a specified  **Recordset** object and make that record the current record.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **MoveLast**( ** _Options_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset2** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Options_|Optional|**Long**|Set to  **dbRunAsync** to rune the call to **MoveLast** asynchronously.|

## Remarks

Use the  **Move** methods to move from record to record without applying a condition.

If you edit the current record, be sure you use the  **Update** method to save the changes before you move to another record. If you move to another record without updating, your changes are lost without warning.

When you open a  **Recordset**, the first record is current and the **BOF** property is **False**. If the **Recordset** contains no records, the **BOF** property is **True**, and there is no current record.

If the first or last record is already current when you use  **MoveFirst** or **MoveLast**, the current record doesn't change.

If  _recordset_ refers to a table-type **Recordset** (Microsoft Access workspaces only), movement follows the current index. You can set the current index by using the **Index** property. If you don't set the current index, the order of returned records is undefined.


 **Note**  You can use the  **MoveLast** method to fully populate a dynaset- or snapshot-type **Recordset** to provide the current number of records in the **Recordset**. However, if you use **MoveLast** in this way, you can slow down your application's performance. You should only use **MoveLast** to get a record count if it is absolutely necessary to obtain an accurate record count on a newly opened **Recordset**. If you use the **dbRunAsync** constant with **MoveLast**, the method call is asynchronous. You can use the **StillExecuting** property to determine when the **Recordset** is fully populated, and you can use the **Cancel** method to terminate execution of the asynchronous **MoveLast** method call.

You can't use the  **MoveFirst**, **MoveLast**, and **MovePrevious** methods on a forward-only-type **Recordset** object.

To move the position of the current record in a  **Recordset** object a specific number of records forward or backward, use the **Move** method.

