
# Visual C++ Extensions for ADO

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

The preferred method of programming ADO with Visual C++ is using the  **#import** directive, as discussed in[Microsoft Visual C++ ADO Programming](117c4fad-8c11-5e3a-ea0c-18811e87475f.md). However, earlier versions of ADO shipped with an alternate method of programming using Visual C++: the Visual C++ Extensions. This section documents this feature for those who must maintain Visual C++ Extensions code, but new ADO code should be written using # **import**.

One of the most tedious jobs Visual C++ programmers face when retrieving data with ADO is converting data returned as a VARIANT data type into a C++ data type, and then storing the converted data in a class or structure. In addition to being cumbersome, retrieving C++ data through a VARIANT data type diminishes performance.
ADO provides an interface that supports retrieving data into native C/C++ data types without going through a VARIANT, and also provides preprocessor macros that simplify using the interface. The result is a flexible tool that is easier to use and has great performance.
A common C/C++ client scenario is to bind a record in a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) to a C/C++ struct or class containing native C/C++ types. When going through VARIANTs, this involves writing conversion code from VARIANT to C/C++ native types. The Visual C++ Extensions for ADO are targeted at making this scenario much easier for the Visual C++ programmer.
See the following topics to learn more about the Visual C++ Extensions for ADO.

- [Using Visual C++ Extensions for ADO](0fb1014c-7ab6-6add-d09f-e5e48b2b32cb.md)
    
- [Visual C++ Extensions Header](59fb9758-be43-051e-b3ae-6fdf50218057.md)
    
- [ADO with Visual C++ Extensions Example](fe57868f-5707-3c5b-cb93-4121732d67cc.md)
    
