
# ColorScale Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a color scale conditional formatting rule.

## Remarks

All conditional formatting objects are contained within a  ** [FormatConditions](2486d4b4-605c-76d8-132a-694c0c600a81.md)** collection object, which is a child of a ** [Range](b8207778-0dcc-4570-1234-f130532cc8cd.md)** collection. You can create a color scale formatting rule by using either the ** [Add](705f9ad4-2500-6607-19c0-6abd3f214d3e.md)** or ** [AddColorScale](f1b23e2f-0c62-fdc5-597b-a8a444d5a4a3.md)** method of the **FormatConditions** collection.

Color scales are visual guides that help you understand data distribution and variation. You can apply either a two-color or a three-color scale to a range of data, data in a table, or data in a PivotTable report. For a two-color scale conditional format, you assign the value, type, and color to the minimum and maximum thresholds of a range. A three-color scale also has a midpoint threshold.

Each of these thresholds is determined by setting the properties of the  ** [ColorScaleCriteria](9c50a2e4-aa22-92ca-6cef-2f8fc931ec33.md)** object. The **ColorScaleCriteria** object, which is a child of the **ColorScale** object, is a collection of all of the ** [ColorScaleCriterion](8b7ffd61-b843-3995-d872-e07d35adfedc.md)** objects for the color scale.


## Example

The following code example creates a range of numbers and then applies a two-color scale conditional formatting rule to that range. The color for the minimum threshold is then assigned to red and the maximum threshold to blue.


```
Sub CreateColorScaleCF() 
 
 Dim cfColorScale As ColorScale 
 
 'Fill cells with sample data from 1 to 10 
 With ActiveSheet 
 .Range("C1") = 1 
 .Range("C2") = 2 
 .Range("C1:C2").AutoFill Destination:=Range("C1:C10") 
 End With 
 
 Range("C1:C10").Select 
 
 'Create a two-color ColorScale object for the created sample data range 
 Set cfColorScale = Selection.FormatConditions.AddColorScale(ColorScaleType:=2) 
 
 'Set the minimum threshold to red and maximum threshold to blue 
 cfColorScale.ColorScaleCriteria(1).FormatColor.Color = RGB(255, 0, 0) 
 cfColorScale.ColorScaleCriteria(2).FormatColor.Color = RGB(0, 0, 255) 
 
End Sub
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [ColorScale Object Members](e14df078-3af6-a32e-d66f-3410b7bdb4d4.md)
