
# DoCmd Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the methods of the  **DoCmd** object to run Microsoft Office Access actions from Visual Basic. An action performs tasks such as closing windows, opening forms, and setting the value of controls.

## Remarks

For example, you can use the  **OpenForm**method of the  **DoCmd** object to open a form, or use the **Hourglass**method to change the mouse pointer to an hourglass icon.

Most of the methods of the  **DoCmd** object have arguments — some are required, while others are optional. If you omit optional arguments, the arguments assume the default values for the particular method. For example, the **OpenForm** method uses seven arguments, but only the first argument,FormName, is required. The following example shows how you can open the Employees form in the current database. Only employees with the title Sales Representative are included.




```
DoCmd.OpenForm "Employees", , ,"[Title] = 'Sales Representative'"
```

The  **DoCmd** object doesn't support methods corresponding to the following actions:


- AddMenu.
    
- MsgBox. Use the  **MsgBox** function.
    
- RunApp. Use the  **Shell** function to run another application.
    
- RunCode. Run the function directly in Visual Basic.
    
- SendKeys. Use the  **SendKeys** statement.
    
- SetValue. Set the value directly in Visual Basic.
    
- StopAllMacros.
    
- StopMacro.
    

## Example

The following example opens a form in Form view and moves to a new record.


```
Sub ShowNewRecord() 
 DoCmd.OpenForm "Employees", acNormal 
 DoCmd.GoToRecord , , acNewRec 
End Sub
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [DoCmd Object Members](3e7ade9e-86e4-0751-188b-5d31c9101651.md)
