
# WorksheetFunction.FInv Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns the inverse of the F probability distribution. If p = FDIST(x,...), then FINV(p,...) = x.

 **Important**  This function has been replaced with one or more new functions that may provide improved accuracy and whose names better reflect their usage. This function is still available for compatibility with earlier versions of Excel. However, if backward compatibility is not required, you should consider using the new functions from now on, because they more accurately describe their functionality.

For more information about the new functions, see the  [F_Inv_RT](0852b011-ec06-ac01-cc94-993f379270bf.md) and [F_Inv](c24c12b0-9c0b-076c-4488-947ec94f8dd0.md) methods.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **FInv**( **_Arg1_**,  **_Arg2_**,  **_Arg3_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [WorksheetFunction](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Arg1|Required| **Double**|Probability - a probability associated with the F cumulative distribution.|
|Arg2|Required| **Double**|Degrees_freedom1 - the numerator degrees of freedom.|
|Arg3|Required| **Double**|Degrees_freedom2 - is the denominator degrees of freedom.|

### Return Value

Double


## Remarks

The F distribution can be used in an F-test that compares the degree of variability in two data sets. For example, you can analyze income distributions in the United States and Canada to determine whether the two countries have a similar degree of income diversity.


- If any argument is nonnumeric, FINV returns the #VALUE! error value.
    
- If probability < 0 or probability > 1, FINV returns the #NUM! error value.
    
- If degrees_freedom1 or degrees_freedom2 is not an integer, it is truncated.
    
- If degrees_freedom1 < 1 or degrees_freedom1 ≥ 10^10, FINV returns the #NUM! error value.
    
- If degrees_freedom2 < 1 or degrees_freedom2 ≥ 10^10, FINV returns the #NUM! error value.
    
FINV can be used to return critical values from the F distribution. For example, the output of an ANOVA calculation often includes data for the F statistic, F probability, and F critical value at the 0.05 significance level. To return the critical value of F, use the significance level as the probability argument to FINV.

Given a value for probability, FINV seeks that value x such that FDIST(x, degrees_freedom1, degrees_freedom2) = probability. Thus, precision of FINV depends on precision of FDIST. FINV uses an iterative search technique. If the search has not converged after 64 iterations, the function returns the #N/A error value.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [WorksheetFunction Object](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)
#### Other resources


 [WorksheetFunction Object Members](6811ca87-4b53-0bff-88c9-30bf7497879a.md)
