
# DBEngine.DefaultUser Property (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Sets the user name used to create the default  **Workspace** when it is initialized. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **DefaultUser**

 _expression_ An expression that returns a **DBEngine** object.


## Remarks

The setting for  **DefaultUser** is a String data type. It can be 1-20 characters long in Microsoft Access workspaces and it can include alphabetic characters, accented characters, numbers, spaces, and symbols except for: " (quotation marks), / (forward slash), \ (backslash), [ ] (brackets), : (colon), | (pipe), < (less-than sign), > (greater-than sign), + (plus sign), = (equal sign), ; (semicolon), , ( comma), ? (question mark), * (asterisk), leading spaces, and control characters (ASCII 00 to ASCII 31).


 **Note**  Use strong passwords that combine upper- and lowercase letters, numbers, and symbols. Weak passwords don't mix these elements. Strong password: Y6dh!et5. Weak password: House27. Use a strong password that you can remember so that you don't have to write it down.

By default, the  **DefaultUser** property is set to "admin" and the **DefaultPassword** property is set to a zero-length string ("").

User names aren't usually case-sensitive; however, if you're re-creating a user account that was deleted or created in a different workgroup, the user name must be an exact case-sensitive match of the original name. Passwords are case-sensitive.

Typically, you use the  **CreateWorkspace** method to create a **Workspace** object with a given user name and password. However, for backward compatibility with earlier versions and for convenience when you don't implement a secured database, the Microsoft Access database engine automatically creates a default **Workspace** object when needed if one isn't already open. In this case, the **DefaultUser** and **DefaultPassword** property values define the user and password for the default **Workspace** object.

For this property to take effect, you should set it before calling any DAO methods.

