
# Access Forms How Do I...

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013_

 **In this article**
 [User Input](#sectionSection0)
 [Controls](#sectionSection1)
 [Design](#sectionSection2)
 [Events](#sectionSection3)
 [Printing](#sectionSection4)


This page links to help on widely used form-related tasks. To view other categories of popular tasks covered in Help, see  [How Do I... in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md).

## User Input
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>


-  [How to: Add a Value to a Bound Combo Box](a34fddd2-eef6-10e2-c141-609053d1dd90.md)
    
      - Describes how to add a use the  **NotInList** event to add a new value to a bound combo box.
    
-  [How to: Determine Whether The Current Record is a New Record In a Form](04aa27cd-b6b1-1397-c177-bac939780492.md)
    
      - Illustrates how to use the  **NewRecord** property to determine if the current record is a new record.
    
-  [How to: Display a Custom Dialog Box When the User Deletes a Record](512b324b-fe2f-b086-78d2-4c09933f5d25.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the BeforeDelConfirm event procedure to display a custom dialog box when the user deletes a record.
    
-  [How to: Perform Simple Data Validation Checks When Editing a Record in a Form](7bb5bf02-30ef-960a-051e-a22592dd80f9.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the BeforeUpdate event of a form or a control to perform validation checks on data entered into a form or control.
    
-  [How to: Prompt a User Before Saving a Record](4b47967c-a043-cc8a-774f-1df0b529f29b.md)
    
      - Describes how to ask a user for confirmation before saving a record.
    
-  [How to: Use Numeric Criteria from a Control on a Form](d3455b78-9ab3-9a85-14c9-895e0d0b96d2.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify numeric criteria coming from a control on a form.
    
-  [How to: Use Textual Criteria from a Control on a Form](236e57eb-3523-92da-e665-281961dfb431.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify textual criteria coming from a control on a form.
    
-  [How to: Use User Input to Build Filter Criteria](0ce3417e-3527-ded4-0940-691c5c81352c.md)
    
      - Describes how to build criteria based on user input.
    

## Controls
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>


-  [How to: Add "(All)" to a Combo Box or List Box](f246db25-84b1-736f-8a79-16b9eea9cbda.md)
    
      - Describes how to add an  **(All)** entry at the top of a combo box.
    
-  [How to: Allow Users to Add Items to an Unbound Combo Box](654cefc7-cbd4-5e8e-adc7-919c6977ac6a.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the NotInList event to add a new value to an unbound combo box.
    
-  [How to: Assign a Control a Value From a Table](d9bba7e3-bca0-00df-3753-dc99ae767759.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **DLookup** function to display the value of a field that is not in the record source for your form or report.
    
-  [How to: Call Procedures in a Subform or Subreport](d0128a6c-f85b-fbf0-22cb-bfd4a8eca3c8.md)
    
      - Describes how to call a procedure that is stored in a subform or subreport form the main form or report.
    
-  [How to: Hide a Subform if the Main Form Contains No Records](20482340-0c86-71c9-3ba1-b9f515397fbc.md)
    
      - Describes how to hide a subform when its main form contains no records.
    
-  [How to: Prevent the Accidental Erasure of Data When Moving Between Controls on a Form](1733caa5-5067-e6d9-b614-51053180f22e.md)
    
      - Describes how to avoid erasing data accidentally when moving between controls.
    
-  [How to: Refer to Tab Control Objects in VBA](cf090068-7f0b-7ea6-1565-8a05860f9378.md)
    
      - Describes how to use tab controls on a form.
    
-  [How to: Set Form, Report, and Control Properties in Code](23d88ab3-9ee6-5f7f-2351-14bb94d7a27b.md)
    
      - Describes how to set properties of forms, reports, and controls.
    

## Design
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  [How to: Apply a Custom Ribbon to a Form or Report](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7dcdfa42-3eaa-43f9-b99d-56b2cac97f84%28Office.15%29.aspx)
    
      - Describes how to display a custom ribbon when a particular form or report is opened.
    
-  [How to: Bind a Form to an ADO Recordset](de85b07c-aa2d-7cf6-e0da-70b682f1bdd0.md)
    
      - Describes how to set a form's  **Recordset** property to an open ADO **Recordset** object.
    
-  [How to: Create a DAO Recordset From a Form](d4bbe327-217d-ba7e-3d9f-3c89af1dcbc9.md)
    
      - Describes how to create a  **Recordset** object based on an Access form.
    
-  [How to: Create Multiple Instances of a Form](1e59bcce-f65f-8632-d96c-9e93af419d05.md)
    
      - Illustrates how to open multiple copies of the same form.
    
-  [How to: Synchronize a DAO Recordset's Record with a Form's Current Record](2960dd7d-4c60-4148-ef58-dd44f1042851.md)
    
      - Describes how to synchronize a recordset's record with the form's current record.
    
-  [How to: Synchronize Two Combo Boxes on a Form](fcfc692b-b1c0-c44f-26cd-7d1de732eb6f.md)
    
      - Describes how to limit the choices in a combo box when selecting an item in another combo box.
    
-  [How to: Use Date and Time Criteria from a Control on a Form](65ea2c4c-f714-a34a-7430-b2b11fddf1a6.md)
    
      - Describes how to change the criteria argument for an operation based on a user's decision.
    

## Events
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  [How to: Apply a Filter When Opening a Form or Report](d7a43e62-3003-d411-2128-dffe0536e119.md)
    
      - Describes several techniques for filtering a form or report as it opens.
    
-  [How to: Cancel an Event](f91f4f8a-99fa-dca7-576a-11c76d6ddc93.md)
    
      - Lists the events that can be canceled programmatically.
    
-  [How to: Cancel the Deletion of a Record by Using Custom Criteria](0445765f-4629-5970-776c-5bd30e2d72a1.md)
    
      - Illustrates how to prevent the deletion of a record based on custom criteria.
    
-  [How to: Change the Filter or Sort Order of a Form or Report](9888dbcd-7409-f334-115e-a318131ebca4.md)
    
      - Describes how to change the filter or sort order of a form or report in response to users' actions.
    
-  [How to: Disable PAGE UP and PAGE DOWN Keys in a Form](998e1d00-f9d3-fcca-4535-390b0fd0d482.md)
    
      - Illustrates how to use a form's KeyDown event to disable the use of the PAGE UP and PAGE DOWN keys in the form.
    
-  [How to: Prompt a User Before Closing a Form](3a29f7c0-5692-49f0-bbfe-f9132d5b582f.md)
    
      - Describes how to ask a user for confirmation before closing a form.
    
-  [How to: Suspend Code Execution Until a Pop-Up Form is Closed](d4d419ac-bf43-3356-4c20-e9bb74f9f591.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **OpenForm** method to suspend code until a pop-up form is closed.
    

## Printing
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>


-  [How to: Programmatically Retrieve Printer Capabilities](8c929823-6b61-16ea-6d84-ff47cc1e8389.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the Microsoft Windows API to determine a printer's capabilities.
    
-  [How to: Retrieve a List of Installed Printers](e3162c3e-6b5b-77c3-32f9-1fdfa64cdefc.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **Printers** collection to determine the installed printers.
    
-  [How to: Work with Form and Report Printer Settings](14a8aa00-9ad8-60f7-e103-791ab08c0e9e.md)
    
      - Describes how to set or retrieve printer settings for a specific form or report.
    

-  [How Do I... in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md)
    
