
# QueryTable.Refresh Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Updates an external data range ( ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)**).

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Refresh**( **_BackgroundQuery_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **QueryTable** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|BackgroundQuery|Optional| **Variant**|Used only with  **QueryTables** that are based on the results of a SQL query. **True** to return control to the procedure as soon as a database connection is made and the query is submitted. The **QueryTable** is updated in the background. **False** to return control to the procedure only after all data has been fetched to the worksheet. If this argument isn't specified, the setting of the ** [BackgroundQuery](d3fd1d37-4956-7fda-accc-25eedf5188c0.md)** property determines the query mode.|

### Return Value

Boolean


## Remarks

The following remarks apply to  **QueryTable** objects that are based on the results of a SQL query.

The  **Refresh** method causes Microsoft Excel to connect to the data source of the **QueryTable** object, execute the SQL query, and return data to the range that is based on the **QueryTable** object. Unless this method is called, the **QueryTable** object doesn't communicate with the data source.

When making the connection to the OLE DB or ODBC data source, Microsoft Excel uses the connection string specified by the  ** [Connection](a576c5d2-113c-cbd0-1ad2-aa46591944de.md)**property. If the specified connection string is missing required values, dialog boxes will be displayed to prompt the user for the required information. If the  ** [DisplayAlerts](d9f36a99-e9c9-9a67-abaf-9c8e49b4febc.md)**property is  **False**, dialog boxes aren't displayed and the  **Refresh** method fails with the Insufficient Connection Information exception.

After Microsoft Excel makes a successful connection, it stores the completed connection string so that prompts won't be displayed for subsequent calls to the  **Refresh** method during the same editing session. You can obtain the completed connection string by examining the value of the ** [Connection](a576c5d2-113c-cbd0-1ad2-aa46591944de.md)**property.

After the database connection is made, the SQL query is validated. If the query isn't valid, the  **Refresh** method fails with the SQL Syntax Error exception.

If the query requires parameters, the  ** [Parameters](d67147f1-d587-a9e4-ed8e-8a1140e8a868.md)**collection must be initialized with parameter binding information before the  **Refresh** method is called. If not enough parameters have been bound, the **Refresh** method fails with the Parameter Error exception. If parameters are set to prompt for their values, dialog boxes are displayed to the user regardless of the setting of the ** [DisplayAlerts](d9f36a99-e9c9-9a67-abaf-9c8e49b4febc.md)**property. If the user cancels a parameter dialog box, the  **Refresh** method halts and returns **False**. If extra parameters are bound with the  **Parameters** collection, these extra parameters are ignored.

The  **Refresh** method returns **True** if the query is successfully completed or started; it returns **False** if the user cancels a connection or parameter dialog box.

To see whether the number of fetched rows exceeded the number of available rows on the worksheet, examine the  ** [FetchedRowOverflow](386aaf06-27d4-bfa1-cf5e-ac8c8bddef44.md)**property. This property is initialized every time the  **Refresh** method is called.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
