
# Charset Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the character set into which the contents of a text [Stream](d49b1514-e0b4-0aca-d5c2-8266f3f4fe65.md) should be translated for storage in the Stream objects internal buffer.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **String** value that specifies the character set into which the contents of the **Stream** will be translated. The default value is "Unicode". Allowed values are typical strings passed over the interface as Internet character set strings (for example, "iso-8859-1", "Windows-1252", etc.). For a list of the character set strings that is known by a system, see the subkeys of HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\MIME\Database\Charset in the Windows Registry.


## Remarks

In a text  **Stream** object, text data is stored in the character set specified by the **Charset** property. The default is Unicode. The **Charset** property is used for converting data going into the **Stream** or coming out of the **Stream**. For example, if the **Stream** contains ISO-8859-1 data and that data is copied to a BSTR, the **Stream** object will convert the data to Unicode. The reverse is also true.

For an open  **Stream**, the current[Position](a07c9197-673b-ddf2-fca9-b0b54fbd67b4.md) must be at the beginning of the **Stream** (0) to be able to set **Charset**.

 **Charset** is used only with text **Stream** objects ([Type](43872c74-51bf-47ae-6bdc-55d25b0dc84a.md) is **adTypeText** ). This property is ignored if **Type** is **adTypeBinary**.

