
# ExecuteComplete Event (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



The  **ExecuteComplete** event is called after a command has finished executing.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **ExecuteComplete** _RecordsAffected_, _pError_, _adStatus_, _pCommand_, _pRecordset_, _pConnection_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _RecordsAffected_
    
- A  **Long** value indicating the number of records affected by the command.
    
-  _pError_
    
- An [Error](97e478bf-8b25-03a8-9358-abba5069cba3.md) object. It describes the error that occurred if the value of **adStatus** is **adStatusErrorsOccurred**; otherwise it is not set.
    
-  _adStatus_
    
- [EventStatusEnum](ae1711bc-2af5-04fd-7d8c-222d8afc9d3d.md)
    
    Before this event returns, set this parameter to  **adStatusUnwantedEvent** to prevent subsequent notifications.
    
-  _pCommand_
    
- The [Command](64f4ef03-f858-c004-b891-0c96d13a5e6e.md) object that was executed. Contains a **Command** object even when calling **Connection.Execute** or **Recordset.Open** without explicitly creating a **Command**, in which cases the **Command** object is created internally by ADO.
    
-  _pRecordset_
    
- A [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object that is the result of the executed command. This **Recordset** may be empty. You should never destroy this Recordset object from within this event handler. Doing so will result in an Access Violation when ADO tries to access an object that no longer exists.
    
-  _pConnection_
    
- A [Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object. The connection over which the operation was executed.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

An  **ExecuteComplete** event may occur due to the **Connection.**[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/af190bd9-7167-df59-29ca-a9a86c4957fd%28Office.15%29.aspx),  **Command.**[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/01812c8c-403e-4428-23f6-86bda747bd0e%28Office.15%29.aspx),  **Recordset.**[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md),  **Recordset.**[Requery](1062d907-979f-020a-b2ed-94e11c0e7d08.md), or  **Recordset.**[NextRecordset](d2776dd5-d521-c57f-dbe5-e02ee238104d.md) methods.

