
# ComboBox.ListWidth Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **ListWidth** property to set the width of the list box portion of a combo box. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ListWidth**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ComboBox** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **ListWidth** property holds a value specifying the width of the list box portion of a combo box in inches or centimeters, depending on the measurement system (U.S. or Metric) selected in the **Measurement system** box on the **Numbers** tab of the **Regional Options** dialog box of Windows Control Panel. To use a unit other than the default, include a measurement indicator, such as cm or in. The default setting (Auto) makes the list box portion of the combo box the same width as the combo box.

The default unit of measurement is twips.


 **Note**  Microsoft Access sets the  **ListWidth** property automatically when you select Lookup Wizard as the data type for a field in table Design view.

You can also set the default for this property by using a combo box's default control style or the  **DefaultControl**property in Visual Basic.

The list portion of the combo box can be wider than the combo box but can't be narrower.

If you want to display a multiple-column list, enter a value that will make the list box wide enough to show all the columns. When designing combo boxes, be sure to leave enough space to display your data and for Microsoft Access to insert a vertical scroll bar.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example returns the value of the  **ListWidth** property for the "States" combo box on the "Order Entry" form.


```
Dim str As String 
str = Forms("Order Entry").Controls("States").ListWidth
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ComboBox Object](1cf508d5-023e-eb38-3991-71e82b2a4e7e.md)
#### Other resources


 [ComboBox Object Members](d0d83ca3-3698-295e-5335-7d0816557d6b.md)
