
# FilterCriterion Property (RDS)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Indicates the evaluation operator to use in the filter value.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _DataControl_. **FilterCriterion** = _String_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _DataControl_
    
- An object variable that represents an [RDS.DataControl](ac430669-7628-696c-c036-b5d35405d788.md) object.
    
-  _String_
    
- A  **String** value that specifies the evaluation operator of the[FilterValue](66dc14cd-cc14-78cb-cb05-91eefb17ea47.md) to the records. Can be any one of the following: <, <=, >, >=, =, or <>.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The [SortColumn](0a5d157c-9261-960d-6f89-33d9c94b3940.md), [SortDirection](33de0dce-f371-6a54-d179-0627939f5b14.md), [FilterValue](66dc14cd-cc14-78cb-cb05-91eefb17ea47.md),  **FilterCriterion**, and[FilterColumn](fb5d9f23-b62a-8131-d6ff-8b7ed8bb825c.md) properties provide sorting and filtering functionality on the client-side cache. The sorting functionality orders records by values from one column. The filtering functionality displays a subset of records based on find criteria, while the full[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) is maintained in the cache. The[Reset](169ebd1e-6071-613e-c065-3af060167456.md) method will execute the criteria and replace the current **Recordset** with an updatable **Recordset**.

The "!=" operator is not valid for  **FilterCriterion**; instead, use "<>".

If both the filter and sort properties are set and you call the  **Reset** method, the rowset is first filtered and then it is sorted. For ascending sorts, the null values are at the top; for descending sorts, null values are at the bottom (ascending is default behavior).

