
# Application.StringFromGUID Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


The  **StringFromGUID** function converts a GUID, which is an array of type **Byte**, to a string.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **StringFromGUID**( **_Guid_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Guid|Required| **Variant**|An array of  **Byte** data used to uniquely identify an application, component, or item of data to the operating system.|

### Return Value

Variant


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The Microsoft Access database engine stores GUIDs as arrays of type  **Byte**. However, Microsoft Access can't return  **Byte** data from a control on a form or report. In order to return the value of a GUID from a control, you must convert it to a string. To convert a GUID to a string, use the **StringFromGUID** function. To convert a string back to a GUID, use the **GUIDFromString**function.

For example, you may need to refer to a field that contains a GUID when using database replication. To return the value of a control on a form bound to a field that contains a GUID, use the  **StringFromGUID** function to convert the GUID to a string.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example returns the value of the s_GUID control on an Employees form in string form and assigns it to a string variable. The s_GUID control is bound to the s_GUID field, one of the system fields added to each replicated table in a replicated database.


```
Public Sub StringValueOfGUID() 
 
 Dim ctl As Control 
 Dim strGUID As String 
 
 ' Get the GUID. 
 Set ctl = Forms!Employees!s_GUID 
 Debug.Print TypeName(ctl.Value) 
 
 ' Convert the GUID to a string. 
 strGUID = StringFromGUID(ctl.Value) 
 Debug.Print TypeName(strGUID) 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](aefb0713-97e6-e2c7-e530-8fd2e1316a55.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](3ab5276c-d52a-72a9-244c-ec92ead48811.md)
