
# AllTables Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **AllTables** collection contains an ** [AccessObject](8a770b33-5bff-120a-6707-ca214ee5ced3.md)**for each table in the  ** [CurrentData](c8d3f74f-050d-e1be-9496-2f1e20996066.md)**or  ** [CodeData](fc207136-4d18-2c7d-ffe6-0e1ad7c2fc32.md)**object.

## Remarks

The  **CurrentData** or **CodeData** object has an **AllTables** collection containing **AccessObject** objects that describe instances of all tables specified by **CurrentData** or **CodeData**. For example, you can enumerate the  **AllTables** collection in Visual Basic to set or return the values of properties of individual **AccessObject** objects in the collection.

You can refer to an individual  **AccessObject** object in the **AllTables** collection either by referring to the object by name, or by referring to its index within the collection. If you want to refer to a specific object in the **AllTables** collection, it's better to refer to the table by name because a table's collection index may change.

The  **AllTables** collection is indexed beginning with zero. If you refer to a table by its index, the first table is AllTables(0), the second table is AllTables(1), and so on.


 **Note**   To list all open tables in the database, use the ** [IsLoaded](5e68398c-8a95-f3e1-87ec-e2d637f34429.md)**property of each  **AccessObject** object in the **AllTables** collection. You can then use the **Name**property of each individual  **AccessObject** object to return the name of a table.

You can't add or delete an  **AccessObject** object from the **AllTables** collection.


## Example

The following example prints the name of each open  **AccessObject** object in the **AllTables** collection.


```
Sub AllTables() 
 Dim obj As AccessObject, dbs As Object 
 Set dbs = Application.CurrentData 
 ' Search for open AccessObject objects in AllTables collection. 
 For Each obj In dbs.AllTables 
 If obj.IsLoaded = True Then 
 ' Print name of obj. 
 Debug.Print obj.Name 
 End If 
 Next obj 
End Sub
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [AllTables Object Members](29ac5838-ff13-b187-8f1e-54e7a533d084.md)
