
# TabControl.TabFixedHeight Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **TabFixedHeight** property to specify or determine the height of the tabs on a tab control. Read/write **Integer**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **TabFixedHeight**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **TabControl** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **TabFixedHeight** property setting is a value that represents the height of tabs in the unit of measurement specified in the **Regional Options** dialog box in Windows Control Panel. If you set this property to zero, the tabs automatically adjust to the height of the tab contents.

You can also set the default for this property by setting a control's  **DefaultControl**property in Visual Basic.

Tthis property uses an  **Integer** value representing the height of the tabs in twips and can be set in any view.


 **Note**  To use a unit of measurement different from the setting in the  **Regional Options** dialog box in Windows Control Panel, specify the unit, such as cm or in (for example, 5 cm or 3 in).

You can't change the color of a tab control. If the tabs don't cover the height of the tab control, the area behind the tabs is displayed. If you place a tab control on an object with a different color than the tab control, you should make sure that the tabs cover the control's background area.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the height of each tab in the tab control "TabCtl1" on the "Mailing List" form to 500 twips.


```
Forms("Mailing List").Controls("TabCtl1").TabFixedWidth = 500
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [TabControl Object](05f7de7b-8665-df6d-3fbb-47f8547d3baf.md)
#### Other resources


 [TabControl Object Members](d6de9ec4-e7f9-5c26-d750-d7c134ec9fb0.md)
