
# FindNextRecord Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **FindNextRecord** action to find the next record that meets the criteria specified by the previous **FindRecord** action or the value in the **Find and Replace** dialog box (on the **Home** tab, click **Find**). You can use the  **FindNextRecord** action to search repeatedly for records. For example, you can move successively through all the records for a specific customer.


## Setting

The  **FindNextRecord** action doesn't have any arguments. The **FindNextRecord** action finds the next record that meets the criteria set either by the **FindRecord** action or in the **Find and Replace** dialog box. The arguments for the **FindRecord** action are shared with the options in the **Find and Replace** dialog box.

To set the search criteria, use the  **FindRecord** action. Typically, you enter a **FindRecord** action in a macro and then use the **FindNextRecord** action to find succeeding records that meet the same criteria. To search for records only when a certain condition is met, you can enter a conditional expression in the **Condition** column of the action row for the **FindNextRecord** action.


## Remarks

This action has the same effect as using the  **Find Next** button in the **Find and Replace** dialog box.


 **Note**  Although the  **FindRecord** action corresponds to the **Find** command on the **Home** tab for tables, queries, and forms, it doesn't correspond to the **Find** command on the **Edit** menu in the Code window. You can't use the **FindRecord** action or **FindNextRecord** action to search for text in modules.


 **Tip**  If you've set the  **Only Current Field** argument of the **FindRecord** action to **Yes**, you may need to use the **GoToControl** action to move the focus to the control containing the data you're searching for before you use the **FindNextRecord** action.

If the currently selected text is the same as the search text at the time the  **FindNextRecord** macro action is carried out, the search begins immediately following the selection, in the same field as the selection, and in the same record. Otherwise, the search begins at the start of the current record. This enables you to find multiple instances of the same search criteria that might appear in a single record.

However, note that if you use a command button to run a macro containing the  **FindNextRecord** action, the first instance of the search criteria will be found repeatedly. This behavior occurs because clicking the command button removes the focus from the field containing the matching value. The **FindNextRecord** action will then begin searching from the start of the record. To avoid this problem, run the macro by using a technique that doesn't change the focus, such as a custom toolbar button or a key combination defined in an AutoKeys macro. Alternatively, set the focus in the macro to the field containing the search criteria before you carry out the **FindNextRecord** action.

The same behavior also occurs if you use a command button to run a macro containing the  **FindRecord** action with the **Find First** argument set to **No**.

To run the  **FindNextRecord** action in a Visual Basic for Applications module, use the **FindNext** method of the **DoCmd** object.

