
# Connection.OpenRecordset Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Creates a new  **[Recordset](9774232c-e6da-175b-fc7f-ed2ab7908fa0.md)** object and appends it to the **Recordsets** collection.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **OpenRecordset**( ** _Name_**, ** _Type_**, ** _Options_**, ** _LockEdit_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Connection** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Name_|Required|**String**|The source of the records for the new  **Recordset**. The source can be a table name, a query name, or an SQL statement that returns records. For table-type **Recordset** objects in Microsoft Access database engine databases, the source can only be a table name.|
| _Type_|Optional|**Variant**|A  **[RecordsetTypeEnum](674020f3-bcf3-884d-1c6a-7db794a6606a.md)** constant that indicates the type of **Recordset** to open.
 **Note**  If you open a  **Recordset** in a Microsoft Access workspace and you don't specify a type, **OpenRecordset** creates a table-type **Recordset**, if possible. If you specify a linked table or query, **OpenRecordset** creates a dynaset-type **Recordset**.

|
| _Options_|Optional|**Variant**|A combination of  **[RecordsetOptionEnum](3a9d8664-dcb6-cb60-7cf6-e229eb699ef1.md)** constants that specify characteristics of the new **Recordset**.
 **Note**  The constants  **dbConsistent** and **dbInconsistent** are mutually exclusive, and using both causes an error. Supplying a lockedits argument when options uses the **dbReadOnly** constant also causes an error.

|
| _LockEdit_|Optional|**Variant**|A  **[LockTypeEnum](d40f984c-b37f-72f7-7b05-752f106b6029.md)** constant that determines the locking for the **Recordset**.
 **Note**  You can use  **dbReadOnly** in either the options argument or the lockedits argument, but not both. If you use it for both arguments, a run-time error occurs.

|

### Return Value

Recordset


## Remarks

Typically, if the user gets this error while updating a record, your code should refresh the contents of the fields and retrieve the newly modified values. If the error occurs while deleting a record, your code could display the new record data to the user and a message indicating that the data has recently changed. At this point, your code can request a confirmation that the user still wants to delete the record.

You should also use the  **dbSeeChanges** constant if you open a **Recordset** in a Microsoft Access database engine-connected ODBC workspace against a Microsoft SQL Server 6.0 (or later) table that has an IDENTITY column, otherwise an error may result.

Opening more than one  **Recordset** on an ODBC data source may fail because the connection is busy with a prior **OpenRecordset** call. One way around this is to fully populate the **Recordset** by using the **MoveLast** method as soon as the **Recordset** is opened.

Closing a  **Recordset** with the **[Close](9b1a77cb-da12-24d6-892f-a56be103d51d.md)** method automatically deletes it from the **Recordsets** collection.




 **Note**  If  _source_ refers to an SQL statement composed of a string concatenated with a non-integer value, and the system parameters specify a non-U.S. decimal character such as a comma (for example, `strSQL = "PRICE > " &; lngPrice`, and  `lngPrice = 125,50`), an error occurs when you try to open the  **Recordset**. This is because during concatenation, the number will be converted to a string using your system's default decimal character, and SQL only accepts U.S. decimal characters.

