
# Application.DDEPoke Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **DDEPoke** statement to supply text data from a client application to a server application over an open dynamic data exchange (DDE) channel.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **DDEPoke**( **_ChanNum_**,  **_Item_**,  **_Data_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ChanNum|Required| **Variant**| A channel number, an integer returned by the ** [DDEInitiate](7b05c3ad-574e-d904-5d50-ff646486ef07.md)**function.|
|Item|Required| **String**|The name of a data item recognized by the application specified by the  **DDEInitiate** function. Check the application's documentation for a list of possible items.|
|Data|Required| **String**|The data to be supplied to the other application.|

## Remarks

For example, if you have an open DDE channel between Microsoft Access and Microsoft Excel, you can use the  **DDEPoke** statement to transfer text from a Microsoft Access database to a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. In this example, Microsoft Access acts as the client application, and Microsoft Excel acts as the server application.

The value of the item argument depends on the application and topic specified when the channel indicated by thechannum argument is opened. For example, theitem argument may be a range of cells in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet.

The string contained in the data argument must be an alphanumeric text string. No other formats are supported. For example, thedata argument could be a number to fill a cell in a specified range in an Excel worksheet.

If the channum argument isn't an integer corresponding to an open channel or if the other application doesn't recognize or accept the specified data, a run-time error occurs.

If you need to manipulate another application's objects from Microsoft Access, you may want to consider using Automation.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](aefb0713-97e6-e2c7-e530-8fd2e1316a55.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](3ab5276c-d52a-72a9-244c-ec92ead48811.md)
