
# Delete Method (ADO Recordset)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Deletes the current record or a group of records.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _recordset_. **Delete** _ AffectRecords_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _AffectRecords_
    
- An [AffectEnum](15393398-d7eb-a685-1bfa-d6712d8e5015.md) value that determines how many records the **Delete** method will affect. The default value is **adAffectCurrent**.
    

 **Note**   **adAffectAll** and **adAffectAllChapters** are not valid arguments to **Delete**.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

Using the  **Delete** method marks the current record or a group of records in a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object for deletion. If the **Recordset** object doesn't allow record deletion, an error occurs. If you are in immediate update mode, deletions occur in the database immediately. If a record cannot be successfully deleted (due to database integrity violations, for example), the record will remain in edit mode after the call to **Update**. This means that you must cancel the update with[CancelUpdate](2bd4d168-ba52-7786-5046-44febeda88e1.md) before moving off the current record (for example, with[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md), [Move](1f858654-5fa3-273d-7cdc-574c5f09a420.md), or [NextRecordset](d2776dd5-d521-c57f-dbe5-e02ee238104d.md)).

If you are in batch update mode, the records are marked for deletion from the cache and the actual deletion happens when you call the [UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md) method. (Use the[Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property to view the deleted records.)

Retrieving field values from the deleted record generates an error. After deleting the current record, the deleted record remains current until you move to a different record. Once you move away from the deleted record, it is no longer accessible.

If you nest deletions in a transaction, you can recover deleted records with the [RollbackTrans](9a0415f0-9424-8d1c-4779-92e932292d46.md) method. If you are in batch update mode, you can cancel a pending deletion or group of pending deletions with the[CancelBatch](be7bf073-ed0b-e24c-7ec0-b7379236782a.md) method.

If the attempt to delete records fails because of a conflict with the underlying data (for example, a record has already been deleted by another user), the provider returns warnings to the [Errors](76c234b8-7fec-11c5-275e-864d5d880ee7.md) collection but does not halt program execution. A run-time error occurs only if there are conflicts on all the requested records.

If the [Unique Table](e6374782-755b-322b-21de-6d6a386dcd98.md) dynamic property is set, and the **Recordset** is the result of executing a JOIN operation on multiple tables, then the **Delete** method will only delete rows from the table named in the[Unique Table](e6374782-755b-322b-21de-6d6a386dcd98.md) property.

