
# PivotFilter.Order Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Specifies the evaluation order of the filter among all Value filters applied to the entire PivotTable. Read/write  **Integer**.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Order**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **PivotFilter** object.


## Remarks

This property is valid only for Value and Top n type PivotFilters. A run-time error is returned if an attempt is made to set or get this property for Label and Date filters. 1 represents the first filter evaluated, 2 represents the next filter evaluated, and so on, until thenth value is reached. -1 represents an inactive filter.

If the  **EvaluationOrder** property is not specified when a new filter is added, it will be set toN+1 (whereN is the current highest **EvaluationOrder** number in the filter collection).

The property can be specified in the  **Add** method or it can be set later for a field by changing the property.

Increasing the evaluation order for a field will decrease the evaluation order of the field previously holding that evaluation order value—and all fields in between the two fields—by one. Setting the evaluation order to the same as before will have no effect. Decreasing the evaluation order for a field will increase the evaluation order of the field previously holding that evaluation order value—and all fields in between the two fields—by one.

 The order of PivotFilters in the collection is the same as the order in which they are evaluated. So developers can change the order in which a PivotField is evaluated. When a PivotField (non-OLAP PivotTables) or a CubeField (OLAP PivotTables) is removed from the **PivotTables** collection, this property is set to -1 for a Value or a Topn filter applied to the field. Adding the field back again will set the **EvaluationOrder** property toN+1 for a Value or Topn filter applied if a value is not explicitly specified.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PivotFilter Object](70c27dc9-2c19-47d2-307b-808507039d94.md)
#### Other resources


 [PivotFilter Object Members](a1be2481-9d14-cc49-8a1b-187048f0d179.md)
