
# DELETE Statement (Microsoft Access SQL)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[ Example](#sectionSection2)


Creates a delete query that removes records from one or more of the tables listed in the [FROM](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/f3c5931e-2768-198e-d69c-095a01c23bb5%28Office.15%29.aspx) clause that satisfy the[WHERE](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/67e4caed-6512-e8bd-39d0-6dca18114b18%28Office.15%29.aspx) clause.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

DELETE [ _table_.*] FROM _table_ WHERE _criteria_

The DELETE statement has these parts:



|**Part**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| _table_|The optional name of the table from which records are deleted.|
| _table_|The name of the table from which records are deleted.|
| _criteria_|An expression that determines which records to delete.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

DELETE is especially useful when you want to delete many records.

To drop an entire table from the database, you can use the  **Execute** method with a[DROP](a8c79c35-22da-2e6d-88b5-620eb481bb61.md) statement. If you delete the table, however, the structure is lost. In contrast, when you use DELETE, only the data is deleted; the table structure and all of the table properties, such as field attributes and indexes, remain intact.

You can use DELETE to remove records from tables that are in a one-to-many relationship with other tables. Cascade delete operations cause the records in tables that are on the many side of the relationship to be deleted when the corresponding record in the one side of the relationship is deleted in the query. For example, in the relationship between the Customers and Orders tables, the Customers table is on the one side and the Orders table is on the many side of the relationship. Deleting a record from Customers results in the corresponding Orders records being deleted if the cascade delete option is specified.

A delete query deletes entire records, not just data in specific fields. If you want to delete values in a specific field, create an update query that changes the values to  **Null**.


 **Important**  


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example deletes all records for employees whose title is Trainee. When the FROM clause includes only one table, you do not have to list the table name in the DELETE statement.


```vb
Sub DeleteX() 
 
    Dim dbs As Database, rst As Recordset 
 
    ' Modify this line to include the path to Northwind 
    ' on your computer. 
    Set dbs = OpenDatabase("Northwind.mdb") 
 
    ' Delete employee records where title is Trainee.     
    dbs.Execute "DELETE * FROM " _ 
        &; "Employees WHERE Title = 'Trainee';" 
     
    dbs.Close 
 
End Sub
```

