
# Command Object (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Defines a specific command that you intend to execute against a data source.

## Remarks

Use a  **Command** object to query a database and return records in a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object, to execute a bulk operation, or to manipulate the structure of a database. Depending on the functionality of the provider, some **Command** collections, methods, or properties may generate an error when referenced.

With the collections, methods, and properties of a  **Command** object, you can do the following:


- Define the executable text of the command (for example, an SQL statement) with the [CommandText](0debec1c-068f-0aea-fce8-e61aa39c5907.md) property.
    
- Define parameterized queries or stored-procedure arguments with [Parameter](7577598e-3d0c-30c6-5f24-1cfe98791798.md) objects and the[Parameters](554387c3-3572-5391-3b24-c7d3443844cd.md) collection.
    
- Execute a command and return a  **Recordset** object if appropriate with the[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/01812c8c-403e-4428-23f6-86bda747bd0e%28Office.15%29.aspx) method.
    
- Specify the type of command with the [CommandType](c8d4fc1c-502b-11f3-af9d-605a03b6f056.md) property prior to execution to optimize performance.
    
- Control whether the provider saves a prepared (or compiled) version of the command prior to execution with the [Prepared](33becda2-faab-5000-8904-6ffd8c5805f2.md) property.
    
- Set the number of seconds that a provider will wait for a command to execute with the [CommandTimeout](a0b6209c-9feb-08ae-002a-15d1d20734a8.md) property.
    
- Associate an open connection with a  **Command** object by setting its[ActiveConnection](5501b2d7-b62c-5fff-1edd-2b7efb3f8c4a.md) property.
    
- Set the [Name](4b19bd08-ac3c-86f0-471d-06a37a0d4f89.md) property to identify the **Command** object as a method on the associated[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object.
    
- Pass a  **Command** object to the[Source](523ea81e-d011-8d87-436e-084b6eba0908.md) property of a **Recordset** in order to obtain data.
    
- Access provider-specific attributes with the [Properties](4d662790-1252-c930-e6f9-edf6a38636af.md) collection.
    

 **Note**  To execute a query without using a  **Command** object, pass a query string to the[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/af190bd9-7167-df59-29ca-a9a86c4957fd%28Office.15%29.aspx) method of a **Connection** object or to the[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md) method of a **Recordset** object. However, a **Command** object is required when you want to persist the command text and re-execute it, or use query parameters.

To create a  **Command** object independently of a previously defined **Connection** object, set its **ActiveConnection** property to a valid connection string. ADO still creates a **Connection** object, but it doesn't assign that object to an object variable. However, if you are associating multiple **Command** objects with the same connection, you should explicitly create and open a **Connection** object; this assigns the **Connection** object to an object variable. If you do not set the **Command** object's **ActiveConnection** property to this object variable, ADO creates a new **Connection** object for each **Command** object, even if you use the same connection string.

To execute a  **Command**, simply call it by its[Name](4b19bd08-ac3c-86f0-471d-06a37a0d4f89.md) property on the associated **Connection** object. The **Command** must have its **ActiveConnection** property set to the **Connection** object. If the **Command** has parameters, pass their values as arguments to the method.

If two or more  **Command** objects are executed on the same connection and either **Command** object is a stored procedure with output parameters, an error occurs. To execute each **Command** object, use separate connections or disconnect all other **Command** objects from the connection.

The  **Parameters** collection is the default member of the **Command** object. As a result, the following two code statements are equivalent.

