
# RefreshRecord Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Remarks](#sectionSection0)
[Client database](#sectionSection1)
[Web database](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **RefreshRecord** action to update the underlying record source for the active form or datasheet to reflect changes made to the records in the current set.

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

the  **RefreshRecord** action shows only changes made to records in the current set. Because the **RefreshRecord** action does not actually requery the database, the current set will not include records that have been added or exclude records that have been deleted since the database was last requeried; Nor will it exclude records that no longer satisfy the criteria of the query or filter. To requery the database, use the **[Requery](6dbdcae5-81b6-9925-4cad-64b178c23060.md)** method. When the record source for a form is requeried, the current set of records will accurately reflect all data in the record source.

The behavior of this macro action depends on whether you are calling it in a client database or a web database.


## Client database
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

In a client database, you can use the  **RefreshRecord** action to update the underlying record source for the active form or datasheet to reflect changes made to the data in the current set. Changes include those made by the current user or by other users in a multiuser environment. It is equivalent to the **[Refresh](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/e7a15c34-d3ec-184f-8d03-3e264fcc60d0%28Office.15%29.aspx)** method.

The  **RefreshRecord** macro action does the following in a client database:


1. Updates the record source for the active form or datasheet to reflect the changes made to rows in the current set. For ODBC linked tables, retrieves changes to records in the current set from the data source.
    
2. Updates the current set to reflect the changes. If a row in the record source has been deleted, it is changed to show #Deleted.
    
3. Refreshes the active or datasheet to display any changed records and any #Deleted records, in the current set.
    
4. Requeries any subforms and subreports on the active form or datasheet.
    

## Web database
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

In a web database, you can use the  **RefreshRecord** action to update the underlying record source for the active form or datasheet to reflect changes made to the records in the current set. Changes include those made by the current user or other users.

The  **RefreshRecord** macro action does the following in a web database:


1. Retrieves changes from the server for any base tables in the current set. For ODBC linked tables, retrieves changes to records in the current set from the data source.
    
2. Updates the current set to reflect the changes. If a row in the current set has been deleted, it is changed to show #Deleted.
    
3. Refreshes the active form or datasheet to display any changed records and any #Deleted records, in the current set.
    
4. Requeries any subforms and subreports on the active form or datasheet.
    


