
# UpdateBatch Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Writes all pending batch updates to disk.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _recordset_. **UpdateBatch** _AffectRecords_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _AffectRecords_
    
- Optional. An [AffectEnum](15393398-d7eb-a685-1bfa-d6712d8e5015.md) value that indicates how many records the **UpdateBatch** method will affect.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

Use the  **UpdateBatch** method when modifying a **Recordset** object in batch update mode to transmit all changes made in a **Recordset** object to the underlying database.

If the  **Recordset** object supports batch updating, you can cache multiple changes to one or more records locally until you call the **UpdateBatch** method. If you are editing the current record or adding a new record when you call the **UpdateBatch** method, ADO will automatically call the[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) method to save any pending changes to the current record before transmitting the batched changes to the provider. You should use batch updating with either a keyset or static cursor only.


 **Note**  Specifying  **adAffectGroup** as the value for this parameter will result in an error when there are no visible records in the current **Recordset** (such as a filter for which no records match).

If the attempt to transmit changes fails for any or all records because of a conflict with the underlying data (for example, a record has already been deleted by another user), the provider returns warnings to the [Errors](76c234b8-7fec-11c5-275e-864d5d880ee7.md) collection and a run-time error occurs. Use the[Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property ( **adFilterAffectedRecords** ) and the[Status](bf3ccb36-c985-5fae-4f76-c48a0e20e6f7.md) property to locate records with conflicts.

To cancel all pending batch updates, use the [CancelBatch](be7bf073-ed0b-e24c-7ec0-b7379236782a.md) method.

If the [Unique Table](e6374782-755b-322b-21de-6d6a386dcd98.md) and[Update Resync](0af9cfd2-8042-65c9-cec6-77d2e7a88ad9.md) dynamic properties are set, and the **Recordset** is the result of executing a JOIN operation on multiple tables, then the execution of the **UpdateBatch** method is implicitly followed by the[Resync](f594a200-56e6-fcf5-9b0a-900c56377f24.md) method depending on the settings of the **Update Resync** property.

The order in which the individual updates of a batch are performed on the data source is not necessarily the same as the order in which they were performed on the local  **Recordset**. Update order is dependent upon the provider. Take this into account when coding updates that are related to one another, such as foreign key constraints on an insert or update.

