
# ProtectedViewWindow Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a  **Protected View** window.

## Remarks

A  **Protected View** window is used to display a workbook from a potentially unsafe location. Unsafe locations are defined as the following:


- Files opened from the Internet.
    
- Attachments opened from Outlook.
    
- Files blocked by File Block Policy.
    
- Files that fail Office File Validation.
    
- Files explicitly opened in  **Protected View** by using the **Open in Protected View** command of the **Open** button in the **Open** dialog box.
    


Workbooks displayed in a  **Protected View** window cannot be edited and are restricted from running active content such as Visual Basic for Applications macros and data connections. For more information about **Protected View** windows, see [What is Protected View?](http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/excel-help/what-is-protected-view-HA010355931.aspx?CTT=1)

 To return a single **ProtectedViewWindow** object from the ** [ProtectedViewWindows](c280b1c5-c605-6453-3604-3a409a8289d0.md)** collection, use `ProtectedViewWindows(Index)`, where Index is the index number of the window you want to open. You can also access the **ProtectedViewWindow** object that represents the active **Protected View** window by using the ** [ActiveProtectedViewWindow](2202c3b4-8880-7a26-8a56-8f2d2e7b7343.md)** property of the ** [Application](19b73597-5cf9-4f56-8227-b5211f657f6f.md)** object.

After you access a  **ProtectedViewWindow** object, use the ** [Workbook](379b98f0-b177-7910-4968-ce4ed2f1ca9d.md)** property to access the ** [Workbook](8c00aa60-c974-eed3-0812-3c9625eb0d4c.md)** object that represents the workbook file that is open in the **Protected View** window. Because a **Protected View** window is designed to protect the user from potentially malicious code, the operations you can perform by using a **Workbook** object returned by a **ProtectedViewWindow** object will be limited. Operations that are not allowed will return an error.


## Example

 The following code example accesses the **Workbook** object that represents the workbook that is open in the first **Protected View** window.


```
Dim wbProtected As Workbook 
 
If Application.ProtectedViewWindows.Count > 0 Then 
    Set wbProtected = Application.ProtectedViewWindows(1).Workbook 
End If 

```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [ProtectedViewWindow Object Members](37bdcf7b-b5c4-af78-ad73-13c8f638964e.md)
