
# QueryTable.WebDisableDateRecognition Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** if data that resembles dates is parsed as text when you import a Web page into a query table. **False** if date recognition is used. The default value is **False**. Read/write  **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **WebDisableDateRecognition**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **QueryTable** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use this property only when the query table's  ** [QueryType](7cf9ea40-62ea-7211-7832-31eceb44ed15.md)**property is set to  **xlWebQuery** and the query returns an HTML document.

If you import data using the user interface, data from a Web query or a text query is imported as a  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)** object, while all other external data is imported as a ** [ListObject](46de6c4f-8ce0-0c7d-da59-6e52f5eab612.md)** object.

If you import data using the object model, data from a Web query or a text query must be imported as a  **QueryTable**, while all other external data can be imported as either a  **ListObject** or a **QueryTable**.

The  **WebDisableDateRecognition** property applies only to **QueryTable** objects.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example turns off date recognition so that Web page data that resembles dates is imported as text. The example then refreshes the query table.


```
Set shFirstQtr = Workbooks(1).Worksheets(1) 
Set qtQtrResults = shFirstQtr.QueryTables _ 
 .Add(Connection := "URL;http://datasvr/98q1/19980331.htm", _ 
 Destination := shFirstQtr.Cells(1,1)) 
With qtQtrResults 
 .WebDisableDateRecognition = True 
 .Refresh 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
