
# BoundObjectFrame.ObjectPalette Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **ObjectPalette** property specifies the palette in the application used to create an OLE object. Read/write **Variant**.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **ObjectPalette**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **BoundObjectFrame** object.


## Remarks

Microsoft Access sets the value of the  **ObjectPalette** property to a **String** data type containing the palette information. You can use this setting to set the value of the **PaintPalette**property for a form or report.

If the application associated with the OLE object doesn't have an associated palette, the  **ObjectPalette** property is set to an zero-length string.

The  **ObjectPalette** property is read-only in Form view.

The setting of the  **ObjectPalette** property makes the palette of the application associated with the OLE object contained in a control available to the **PaintPalette** property of a form or report. For example, to make the palette used in Microsoft Graph available when you're designing a form in Microsoft Access, you set the form's **PaintPalette** property to the **ObjectPalette** value of an existing chart control.


 **Note**   Windows can have only one color palette active at a time. Microsoft Access allows you to have multiple graphics on a form, each using a different color palette. The **PaintPalette** and **PaletteSource**properties let you specify which color palette a form should use when displaying graphics.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [BoundObjectFrame Object](b3025672-60b8-e1d6-4769-1f724c9aa1ef.md)
#### Other resources


 [BoundObjectFrame Object Members](e2bbeb0c-1b13-5953-999a-4a0b93cb3ec7.md)
