
# CodeProject Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **CodeProject** object refers to the project for the code database of a Microsoft Access project (.adp) or Access database.

## Remarks

The  **CodeProject** object has several collections that contain specific ** [AccessObject](8a770b33-5bff-120a-6707-ca214ee5ced3.md)**objects within the code database. The following table lists the name of each collection defined by Access project and the types of objects it contains.



|**Collections**|**Object type**|
|:-----|:-----|
| ** [AllForms](b90616b9-90fc-bb51-6bfa-b149dece0f1b.md)**|All forms|
| ** [AllReports](5846cf60-41b4-e9f8-ea27-b9400a6d3861.md)**|All reports|
| ** [AllMacros](a36ba978-f643-aca6-5efb-842723d17bbc.md)**|All macros|
| ** [AllModules](322815ae-3afd-f299-0ce9-2e9dbbb8536a.md)**|All modules|

 **Note**   The collections in the preceding table contain all of the respective objects in the database regardless if they are opened or closed.

For example, an  **AccessObject** object representing a form is a member of the **AllForms** collection, which is a collection of **AccessObject** objects within the current database. Within the **AllForms** collection, individual members of the collection are indexed beginning with zero. You can refer to an individual **AccessObject** object in the **AllForms** collection either by referring to the form by name, or by referring to its index within the collection. If you want to refer to a specific object in the **AllForms** collection, it's better to refer to it by name because a item's collection index may change. If the object name includes a space, the name must be surrounded by brackets ([ ]).



|**Syntax**|**Example**|
|:-----|:-----|
| **AllForms**!formname|AllForms!OrderForm|
| **AllForms**![form name]|AllForms![Order Form]|
| **AllForms**("formname")|AllForms("OrderForm")|
| **AllForms**(formname)|AllForms(0)|

## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [CodeProject Object Members](cd3b6b70-8312-2f2f-0f4d-7679d8bea9f5.md)
