
# Access Miscellaneous How Do I...

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013_

 **In this article**
 [Date/Time](#sectionSection0)
 [Criteria Expressions](#sectionSection1)
 [Windows API](#sectionSection2)
 [Maintenance](#sectionSection3)


This page links to help on widely used miscellaneous tasks. To view other categories of popular tasks covered in Help, see  [How Do I… in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md).

## Date/Time
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>


-  [How to: Calculate Age](4afca7f2-9864-6300-79c4-c4e251b0b66d.md)
    
      - Describes how to calculate the age of a person or thing based on a given date.
    
-  [How to: Calculate and Display Specific Date Values](ba8c8404-fbe9-d7ef-57bb-17631ec8fb4c.md)
    
      - Describes how to create expressions for displaying specific dates and calculating time intervals.
    
-  [How to: Calculate Elapsed Time](90e46152-6d97-0860-a414-a17cc8ba40cf.md)
    
      - Describes how to calculate elapsed time.
    
-  [How to: Find the Number of Working Days Between Two Dates](2831d409-1b10-06ef-54ec-9c3386e70021.md)
    
      - Contains a custom function that you can use to determine the number of working days between two dates.
    
-  [How to: Format Dates as U.S. Dates Regardless of Regional Settings](d2e9121d-d950-0f63-9a28-53613a205465.md)
    
      - Contains a custom function that formats dates in U.S. date format, regardless of the region that you have set in the Regional Settings tool in Control Panel.
    
-  [How to: Specify Date and Time in Criteria Expressions](749379e7-5fbe-3371-a780-ca7915d8de43.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify date or time criteria for an operation.
    
-  [How to: Use Date and Time Criteria from a Control on a Form](65ea2c4c-f714-a34a-7430-b2b11fddf1a6.md)
    
      - Describes how to change the criteria argument for an operation based on a user's decision.
    

## Criteria Expressions
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>


-  [How to: Calculate Fields in Domain Aggregate Functions](49be8987-6703-0632-6119-8e5e6ae6e315.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the expr argument in a domain aggregate function to perform a calculation on values in a field.
    
-  [How to: Include Quotation Marks in String Expressions](bb4d42ee-37cb-8fbf-0489-62fdf0706b91.md)
    
      - Describes how to embed quotation marks in an SQL expression.
    
-  [How to: Sort Records in Case-Sensitive ( ASCII) Order](92c74803-2ff3-82b3-ca20-8bef5bfd6004.md)
    
      - Contains a custom function that can be used to sort records in case-sensitive order.
    
-  [How to: Specify Date and Time in Criteria Expressions](749379e7-5fbe-3371-a780-ca7915d8de43.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify date or time criteria for an operation.
    
-  [How to: Use Multiple Fields in Criteria Expressions](b0bd588b-b25a-f433-3642-7b06936377e2.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify multiple fields in a criteria argument.
    
-  [How to: Use Numeric Criteria from a Control on a Form](d3455b78-9ab3-9a85-14c9-895e0d0b96d2.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify numeric criteria coming from a control on a form.
    
-  [How to: Use Numeric Criteria in Expressions](c2055190-8d65-7342-19ef-582c05846b5b.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify numeric criteria for an operation.
    
-  [How to: Use Textual Criteria Expressions](72ee596d-b08c-6af4-041a-6771ac8ce524.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify textual criteria for an operation.
    
-  [How to: Use Textual Criteria from a Control on a Form](236e57eb-3523-92da-e665-281961dfb431.md)
    
      - Describes how to specify textual criteria coming from a control on a form.
    
-  [How to: Use User Input to Build Filter Criteria](0ce3417e-3527-ded4-0940-691c5c81352c.md)
    
      - Describes how to build criteria based on user input.
    

## Windows API
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  [How to: Determine When a Shelled Process Ends](16a6fb03-0ff5-76a9-8efb-9348d5a6beef.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the Windows API to wait for an external process.
    
-  [How to: Programmatically Retrieve Printer Capabilities](8c929823-6b61-16ea-6d84-ff47cc1e8389.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the Windows API to determine a printer's capabilities.
    
-  [How to: Retrieve Information from the Clipboard](593d3047-c6c8-ab22-cdeb-aadc8b56ca81.md)
    
      - Describes two methods for pasting information form the Clipboard programmatically.
    
-  [How to: Send Information to the Clipboard](4261f071-7bff-b290-c3d3-03645fd9ada0.md)
    
      - Describes two methods for copying information to the Clipboard programmatically.
    
-  [How to: Retrieve the Name of the User Logged On To the Network](3bf335a1-08d0-c8d5-8d89-36f0c29d47d0.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the Windows API to retrieve the name of the user logged on to the computer.
    

## Maintenance
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  [How to: Compact and Repair a Database](5ad4e6b1-abfd-3f89-5c80-9e41397a96e8.md)
    
      - Describes how to compact and repair a database.
    
-  [How to: Recover Tables Deleted from a Database](4d370adb-741f-269d-8def-bccec1f335f1.md)
    
      - Describes a method for recovering tables that have been deleted.
    
-  [How to: Handle Run-Time Errors in VBA](4920479c-f597-bcff-dfd5-9ba5c34ee774.md)
    
      - Describes how to trap run-time errors.
    
-  [How Do I... in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md)
    
