
# CopyRecord Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Return Value](#sectionSection3)
[Remarks](#sectionSection4)



Copies a entity represented by a  **Record** to another location.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _Record_. **CopyRecord** ( _Source_, _Destination_, _UserName_, _Password_, _Options_, _Async_ )


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Source_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains a URL specifying the entity to be copied (for example, a file or directory). If _Source_ is omitted or specifies an empty string, the file or directory represented by the current[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) will be copied.
    
-  _Destination_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains a URL specifying the location where _Source_ will be copied.
    
-  _UserName_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains the user ID that, if needed, authorizes access to _Destination_.
    
-  _Password_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains the password that, if needed, verifies _UserName_.
    
-  _Options_
    
- Optional. A [CopyRecordOptionsEnum](ab9426e9-0e4e-6c85-43cf-e4a205a7c4c0.md) value that has a default value of **adCopyUnspecified**. Specifies the behavior of this method.
    
-  _Async_
    
- Optional. A  **Boolean** value that, when **True**, specifies that this operation should be asynchronous.
    

## Return Value
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

A  **String** value that typically returns the value of _Destination_. However, the exact value returned is provider-dependent.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>

The values of  _Source_ and _Destination_ must not be identical; otherwise, a run-time error occurs. At least one of the server, path, or resource names must differ.

All children (for example, subdirectories) of  _Source_ are copied recursively, unless **adCopyNonRecursive** is specified. In a recursive operation, _Destination_ must not be a subdirectory of _Source_; otherwise, the operation will not complete.

This method fails if  _Destination_ identifies an existing entity (for example, a file or directory), unless **adCopyOverWrite** is specified.




 **Important**  Use the  **adCopyOverWrite** option judiciously. For example, specifying this option when copying a file to a directory will _delete_ the directory and replace it with the file.




 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).

