
# WorksheetFunction.ErfC Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection1)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection2)
 [Example](#sectionSection3)


Returns the complementary ERF function integrated between the specified parameter and infinity.


 **Important**  This function has been replaced with one or more new functions that may provide improved accuracy and whose names better reflect their usage. This function is still available for compatibility with earlier versions of Excel. However, if backward compatibility is not required, you should consider using the new functions from now on, because they more accurately describe their functionality.

For more information about the new function, see the  [ErfC_Precise](7ea46b1f-22cb-85e7-eda3-c283c2aa98cb.md) method.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _expression_. **ErfC**( **_Arg1_**,  **_Arg2_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **WorksheetFunction** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Arg1|Required| **Variant**|The first argument.|
|Arg2|Optional| **Variant**|The second argument.|

### Return Value

Double


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

If this function is not available, and returns the #NAME? error, you need to install and load the  **Analysis ToolPak** add-in.

If the parameter is nonnumeric, ERFC returns the #VALUE! error value.

If the parameter is negative, ERFC returns the #NUM! error value.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The following example displays the complementary ERF function of 1 (0.1573).


```
=ERFC(1)
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [WorksheetFunction Object](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)
#### Other resources


 [WorksheetFunction Object Members](6811ca87-4b53-0bff-88c9-30bf7497879a.md)
