
# CustomControl.OldValue Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **OldValue** property to determine the unedited value of a bound control. Read-only **Variant**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **OldValue**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **CustomControl** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **OldValue** property contains the unedited data from a bound control and is read-only in all views.

Microsoft Access uses the  **OldValue** property to store the original value of a bound control. When you edit a bound control on a form, your changes aren't saved until you move to another record. The **OldValue** property contains the unedited version of the underlying data.

You can provide your own undo capability by assigning the  **OldValue** property setting to a control. The following example shows how you can undo any changes to text box controls on a form:




```
Private Sub btnUndo_Click() 
 
 Dim ctlTextbox As Control 
 
 For Each ctlTextbox in Me.Controls 
 If ctlTextbox.ControlType = acTextBox Then 
 ctlTextbox.Value = ctl.OldValue 
 End If 
 Next ctlTextbox 
 
End Sub
```

If the control hasn't been edited, this code has no effect. When you move to another record, the record source is updated, so the current value and the  **OldValue** property will be the same.

The  **OldValue** property setting has the same data type as the field to which the control is bound.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example checks to determine if new data entered in a field is within 10 percent of the value of the original data. If the change is greater than 10 percent, the  **OldValue** property is used to restore the original value. This procedure could be called from the BeforeUpdate event of the control that contains data you want to validate.


```
Public Sub Validate_Field() 
 
 Dim curNewValue As Currency 
 Dim curOriginalValue As Currency 
 Dim curChange As Currency 
 Dim strMsg As String 
 
 curNewValue = Forms!Products!UnitPrice 
 curOriginalValue = Forms!Products!UnitPrice.OldValue 
 curChange = Abs(curNewValue - curOriginalValue) 
 
 If curChange > (curOriginalValue * .1) Then 
 strMsg = "Change is more than 10% of original unit price. " _ 
 &amp; "Restoring original unit price." 
 MsgBox strMsg, vbExclamation, "Invalid change." 
 Forms!Products!UnitPrice = curOriginalValue 
 End If 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [CustomControl Object](a6ded8cf-4cf8-26ff-bade-f37a7ac52b02.md)
#### Other resources


 [CustomControl Object Members](3093550b-7994-fb58-044c-90e8da535f9d.md)
