
# Errors Collection (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Contains all the [Error](97e478bf-8b25-03a8-9358-abba5069cba3.md) objects created in response to a single provider-related failure provider.

## Remarks

Any operation involving ADO objects can generate one or more provider errors. As each error occurs, one or more  **Error** objects can be placed in the **Errors** collection of the[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object. When another ADO operation generates an error, the **Errors** collection is cleared, and the new set of **Error** objects can be placed in the **Errors** collection.

Each  **Error** object represents a specific provider error, not an ADO error. ADO errors are exposed to the run-time exception-handling mechanism. For example, in Microsoft Visual Basic, the occurrence of an ADO-specific error will trigger an[onError](e26a3f7f-0f00-919a-65ad-bf39ffb83e92.md) event and appear in the **Err** object.

ADO operations that don't generate an error have no effect on the  **Errors** collection. Use the[Clear](5d51f42c-147b-1fcf-d05b-123e5714ecb7.md) method to manually clear the **Errors** collection.

The set of  **Error** objects in the **Errors** collection describes all errors that occurred in response to a single statement. Enumerating the specific errors in the **Errors** collection enables your error-handling routines to more precisely determine the cause and origin of an error, and take appropriate steps to recover.

Some properties and methods return warnings that appear as  **Error** objects in the **Errors** collection but do not halt a program's execution. Before you call the[Resync](f594a200-56e6-fcf5-9b0a-900c56377f24.md), [UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md), or [CancelBatch](be7bf073-ed0b-e24c-7ec0-b7379236782a.md) methods on a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object, the[Open](1adaa17d-dfe1-22e0-3415-720516d138f8.md) method on a **Connection** object, or set the[Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property on a **Recordset** object, call the **Clear** method on the **Errors** collection. That way you can read the[Count](b59f9581-ffd1-471d-44fa-3c1bb812e140.md) property of the **Errors** collection to test for returned warnings.


 **Note**  See the  **Error** object topic for a more detailed explanation of the way a single ADO operation can generate multiple errors.

