
# OptionGroup.Click Event (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **Click** event occurs when the user presses and then releases a mouse button over an object.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Click**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **OptionGroup** object.


## Remarks


- This event doesn't apply to check boxes, option buttons, or toggle buttons in an option group. It applies only to the option group itself.
    
- This event applies to a control containing a hyperlink.
    
To run a macro or event procedure when this event occurs, set the  **OnClick**property to the name of the macro or to [Event Procedure].

For a control, this event occurs when the user:


- Clicks a control with the left mouse button. Clicking a control with the right or middle mouse button does not trigger this event.
    
- Clicks a control containing hyperlink data with the left mouse button. Clicking a control with the right or middle mouse button does not trigger this event. When the user moves the mouse pointer over a control containing hyperlink data, the mouse pointer changes to a "hand" icon. When the user clicks the mouse button, the hyperlink is activated, and then the  **Click** event occurs.
    
- Selects an item in a combo box or list box, either by pressing the arrow keys and then pressing the ENTER key or by clicking the mouse button.
    
- Presses SPACEBAR when a command button, check box, option button, or toggle button has the focus.
    
- Presses the ENTER key on a form that has a command button whose  **Default**property is set to Yes.
    
- Presses the ESC key on a form that has a command button whose  **Cancel**property is set to Yes.
    
- Presses a control's access key. For example, if a command button's  **Caption**property is set to &amp;Go, pressing ALT+G triggers the event.
    
The  **Click** event for an option group occurs after you change the value of one of the controls in the option group by clicking the control. For example, if you click a toggle button, option button, or check box in an option group, the **Click** event for the option group occurs after the **BeforeUpdate**and  **AfterUpdate**events for the option group.

Typically, you attach a  **Click**event procedure or macro to a command button to carry out commands and command-like actions. For the other applicable controls, use this event to trigger actions in response to one of the occurrences discussed earlier in this topic.

You can use a  **CancelEvent** action in a DblClick macro to cancel the second **Click** event. For more information, see the DblClick event topic.

To distinguish between the left, right, and middle mouse buttons, use the  **MouseDown**and  **MouseUp**events.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [OptionGroup Object](aa9e5607-7892-9ab2-dabc-822372b23811.md)
#### Other resources


 [OptionGroup Object Members](90e68eb2-20f2-510c-4332-241eeac27f14.md)
