
# Status Property (ADO Field)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the status of a [Field](1dbd535e-48ad-a5c8-a1b2-6776c1e3e19d.md) object.

## Return Value

Returns a [FieldStatusEnum](49570042-8435-8618-3ba1-7006c47735e0.md) value. The default value is **adFieldOK**.


## Remarks

This property always returns  **adFieldOK** for fields of a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object.

Additions and deletions to the [Fields](029aa738-8726-54a6-1813-b152813948bc.md) collections of the[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) object are cached until the[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) method is called. The **Status** property enables you to determine which fields have been successfully added or deleted.

To enhance performance, schema changes are cached until  **Update** is called, and then the changes are made in a batch optimistic update. If the **Update** method is not called, the server is not updated. If any updates fail then an error is returned and the **Status** property indicates the combined values of the operation and error status code. For example, **adFieldPendingInsert** **OR** **adFieldPermissionDenied**. The **Status** property for each **Field** can be used to determine why the **Field** was not added, modified, or deleted. **Status** is only meaningfully exposed on the **Record**. **Fields** collection and not the **Recordset**. **Fields** collection.

Two problems can arise when adding, modifying, or deleting a  **Field**. If the user deletes a **Field**, it is marked for deletion from the **Fields** collection. If the subsequent **Update** returns an error because the user tried to delete a **Field** for which they do not have permission, the **Field** will have a status of **adFieldPermissionDenied** **OR** **adFieldPendingDelete**. Calling the[CancelUpdate](2bd4d168-ba52-7786-5046-44febeda88e1.md) method restores original values and sets the **Status** to **adFieldOK**. Similarly, the **Update** method may return an error because a new **Field** was added and given an inappropriate value. In that case the new **Field** will be in the **Fields** collection and have a status of **adFieldPendingInsert** and perhaps **adFieldCantCreate**. You can supply an appropriate value for the new **Field** and call **Update** again. Note that calling **Resync** instead requeries the provider.

