
# WorksheetFunction.GammaInv Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns the inverse of the gamma cumulative distribution. If p = GAMMADIST(x,...), then GAMMAINV(p,...) = x.

 **Important**  This function has been replaced with one or more new functions that may provide improved accuracy and whose names better reflect their usage. This function is still available for compatibility with earlier versions of Excel. However, if backward compatibility is not required, you should consider using the new functions from now on, because they more accurately describe their functionality.

For more information about the new function, see the  [Gamma_Inv](7b0e95f4-dd58-50f2-89ec-22bfa932766f.md) method.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **GammaInv**( **_Arg1_**,  **_Arg2_**,  **_Arg3_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [WorksheetFunction](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Arg1|Required| **Double**|Probability - the probability associated with the gamma distribution.|
|Arg2|Required| **Double**|Alpha - a parameter to the distribution.|
|Arg3|Required| **Double**|Beta - a parameter to the distribution. If beta = 1, GAMMAINV returns the standard gamma distribution.|

### Return Value

Double


## Remarks

You can use this function to study a variable whose distribution may be skewed.


- If any argument is text, GAMMAINV returns the #VALUE! error value.
    
- If probability < 0 or probability > 1, GAMMAINV returns the #NUM! error value.
    
- If alpha ≤ 0 or if beta ≤ 0, GAMMAINV returns the #NUM! error value.
    
Given a value for probability, GAMMAINV seeks that value x such that GAMMADIST(x, alpha, beta, TRUE) = probability. Thus, precision of GAMMAINV depends on precision of GAMMADIST. GAMMAINV uses an iterative search technique. If the search has not converged after 64 iterations, the function returns the #N/A error value.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [WorksheetFunction Object](7b1d5639-363d-632c-2cf0-2232562646b6.md)
#### Other resources


 [WorksheetFunction Object Members](6811ca87-4b53-0bff-88c9-30bf7497879a.md)
