
# DoCmd.Save Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


The  **Save** method carries out the Save action in Visual Basic.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Save**( **_ObjectType_**,  **_ObjectName_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **DoCmd** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ObjectType|Optional| **AcObjectType**|A  ** [AcObjectType](157a8d35-2b27-4f62-8e74-525043f6ec71.md)** constant that specifies the type of object you want to save.|
|ObjectName|Optional| **Variant**|A string expression that's the valid name of an object of the type selected by the objecttype argument.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **Save** method works on all database objects that the user can explicitly open and save. The specified object must be open for the **Save** method to have any effect on the object.

If you leave the objecttype andobjectname arguments blank (the default constant, **acDefault**, is assumed for the objecttype argument), Microsoft Access saves the active object. If you leave theobjecttype argument blank, but enter a name in theobjectname argument, Microsoft Access saves the active object with the specified name. If you enter an object type in theobjecttype argument, you must enter an existing object's name in theobjectname argument.


 **Note**  You can't use the  **Save** method to save any of the following with a new name:


- A form in Form view or Datasheet view.
    
- A report in Print Preview.
    
- A module.
    
- A server view in Datasheet view or Print Preview.
    
- A table in Datasheet view or Print Preview.
    
- A query in Datasheet view or Print Preview.
    
- A stored procedure in Datasheet view or Print Preview.
    

## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **Save** method to save the form named "New Employees Form". This form must be open when the code containing this method runs.


```
DoCmd.Save acForm, "New Employees Form"
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [DoCmd Object](3ce44cca-9979-0a1e-9787-079a52ce528f.md)
#### Other resources


 [DoCmd Object Members](3e7ade9e-86e4-0751-188b-5d31c9101651.md)
