
# Application.AccessError Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **AccessError** method to return the descriptive string associated with a Microsoft Access or DAO error.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **AccessError**( **_ErrorNumber_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ErrorNumber|Required| **Variant**|The number of the error for which you wish to return a descriptive string.|

### Return Value

Variant


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use the  **AccessError** method to return the descriptive string associated with a Microsoft Access or DAO error when the error hasn't actually occurred, but you cannot use it for ADO errors.

You can use the Visual Basic  **Raise** method to raise a Visual Basic error. Once you've raised the error, you can determine its associated descriptive string by reading the **Description** property of the **Err** object.

You can't use the  **Raise** method to raise a Microsoft Access or DAO error. However, you can use the **AccessError** method to return the descriptive string associated with these errors, without having to generate the error.

You can use the  **AccessError** method to return a descriptive string from within a form's **Error** event.

If the Microsoft Access error has occurred, you can return the descriptive string by using either the  **AccessError** method or the **Description** property of the Visual Basic **Err** object.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following function returns an error string for any valid error number:


 **Note**  You must have your error trapping options set to Break on Unhandled Errors for the code to run in the VBA IDE. You can set this option on the General tab of the Options dialog found on the VBA Tools menu.


```
Function ErrorString(ByVal lngError As Long) As String 
 
 Const conAppError = "Application-defined or " &amp; _ 
 "object-defined error" 
 
 On Error Resume Next 
 Err.Raise lngError 
 
 If Err.Description = conAppError Then 
 ErrorString = AccessError(lngError) 
 ElseIf Err.Description = vbNullString Then 
 MsgBox "No error string associated with this number." 
 Else 
 ErrorString = Err.Description 
 End If 
 
End Function
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](aefb0713-97e6-e2c7-e530-8fd2e1316a55.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](3ab5276c-d52a-72a9-244c-ec92ead48811.md)
