
# Record Object (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Represents a row from a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) or the data provider, or an object returned by a semi-structured data provider, such as a file or directory.

## Remarks

A  **Record** object represents one row of data, and has some conceptual similarities with a one-row **Recordset**. Depending upon the capabilities of your provider, **Record** objects may be returned directly from your provider instead of a one-row **Recordset**, for example when an SQL query that selects only one row is executed. Or, a **Record** object can be obtained directly from a **Recordset** object. Or, a **Record** can be returned directly from a provider to semi-structured data, such as the Microsoft Exchange OLE DB provider.

You can view the fields associated with the  **Record** object by way of the[Fields](029aa738-8726-54a6-1813-b152813948bc.md) collection on the **Record** object. ADO allows object-valued columns including **Recordset**, **SafeArray**, and scalar values in the **Fields** collection of **Record** objects.

If the  **Record** object represents a row in a **Recordset**, then it is possible to return to that original **Recordset** with the[Source](f36f0f5f-4493-d8c5-db4b-c72f5031bcb3.md) property.

The  **Record** object can also be used by semi-structured data providers such as the[Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md), to model tree-structured namespaces. Each node in the tree is a  **Record** object with associated columns. The columns can represent the attributes of that node and other relevant information. The **Record** object can represent both a leaf node and a non-leaf node in the tree structure. Non-leaf nodes have other nodes as their contents while leaf nodes do not have such contents. Leaf nodes typically contain binary streams of data while non-leaf nodes may also have a default binary stream associated with them. Properties on the **Record** object identify the type of node.

The  **Record** object also represents an alternative way for navigating hierarchically organized data. A **Record** object may be created to represent the root of a specific sub-tree in a large tree structure and new **Record** objects may be opened to represent child nodes.

A resource (for example, a file or directory) can be uniquely identified by an absolute URL. A [Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object is implicitly created and set to the **Record** object when the **Record** is opened with an absolute URL. A **Connection** object may explicitly be set to the **Record** object via the[ActiveConnection](5501b2d7-b62c-5fff-1edd-2b7efb3f8c4a.md) property. The files and directories accessible via the **Connection** object define the _context_ in which **Record** operations may occur.

Data modification and navigation methods on the  **Record** object also accept a relative URL, which locates a resource using an absolute URL or the **Connection** object context as a starting point.


 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).

A  **Connection** object is associated with each **Record** object. Therefore, **Record** object operations can be part of a transaction by invoking **Connection** object transaction methods.

The  **Record** object does not support ADO events, and therefore will not respond to notifications.

With the methods and properties of a  **Record** object, you can do the following:


- Set or return the associated  **Connection** object with the[ActiveConnection](5501b2d7-b62c-5fff-1edd-2b7efb3f8c4a.md) property.
    
- Indicate access permissions with the [Mode](62086f4f-8624-16c4-dae1-a17475d1864d.md) property.
    
- Return the URL of the directory, if any, that contains the resource represented by the  **Record** with the[ParentURL](ec7ec476-6f9e-8486-fe02-74995975df5c.md) property.
    
- Indicate the absolute URL, relative URL, or  **Recordset** from which the **Record** is derived with the[Source](f36f0f5f-4493-d8c5-db4b-c72f5031bcb3.md) property.
    
- Indicate the current status of the  **Record** with the[State](ade0a50c-e2d8-23ac-4ea9-b012fedcd5db.md) property.
    
- Indicate the type of  **Record** — _simple_, _collection_, or _structured document_ — with the[RecordType](a42001a6-7312-162d-dd71-c82f8c9d527f.md) property.
    
- Halt execution of an asynchronous operation with the [Cancel](747edc04-a5cc-3631-2d0b-82e7e41a76b7.md) method.
    
- Disassociate the  **Record** from a data source with the[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md) method.
    
- Copy the file or directory represented by a  **Record** to another location with the[CopyRecord](724e4358-f216-8e47-5bab-c72770ece5a4.md) method.
    
- Delete the file, or directory and subdirectories, represented by a  **Record** with the[DeleteRecord](ba71187f-e580-bba8-f41b-bedfa0bc2b04.md) method.
    
- Open a  **Recordset** containing rows that represent the subdirectories and files of the entity represented by the **Record** with the[GetChildren](998cf640-ffc7-51e1-4d1e-4797f7cdea4a.md) method.
    
- Move (rename) the file, or directory and subdirectories, represented by a  **Record** to another location with the[MoveRecord](efc341a2-0e08-a838-5925-8d4c46377e48.md) method.
    
- Associate the  **Record** with an existing data source, or create a new file or directory with the[Open](ba71c5c7-326e-d3b6-0e74-e8343ee6896f.md) method.
    
