
# Report.Painting Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **Painting** property to specify whether a report is repainted. Read/write **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Painting**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Report** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **Painting** property is similar to the Echo action. However, the **Painting** property prevents repainting of a single report, whereas the Echo action prevents repainting of all open windows in an application.

Setting the  **Painting** property for a report to **False** also prevents all controls (except subreport controls) on a report from being repainted. To prevent a subreport control from being repainted, you must set the **Painting** property for the subreport to **False**. (Note that you set the  **Painting** property for the subreport, not the subreport control.)

The  **Painting** property is automatically set to **True** whenever the report gets or loses the focus. You can set this property to **False** while you are working on a report if you don't want to see changes to the report or to its controls. For example, if a form has a set of controls that are automatically resized when the form is resized and you don't want the user to see each individual control move, you can turn **Painting** off, and then move all of the controls, then turn **Painting** back on.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **Painting** property to enable or disable form painting depending on whether the `SetPainting` variable is set to **True** or **False**. If form painting is turned off, Microsoft Access displays the hourglass icon while painting is turned off.


```
Public Sub EnablePaint(ByRef frmName As Form, _ 
 ByVal SetPainting As Integer) 
 
 frmName.Painting = SetPainting 
 
 ' Form painting is turned off. 
 If SetPainting = False Then 
 DoCmd.Hourglass True 
 Else 
 DoCmd.Hourglass False 
 End If 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Report Object](6f77c1b4-a9ce-7caa-204c-fe0755c6f9df.md)
#### Other resources


 [Report Object Members](73370a33-1ca0-da4d-9e36-88011bc2b93e.md)
