
# ComboBox.OnUndo Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets a  **String** indicating which macro, event procedure, or user-defined function runs when the **Undo**event occurs. Read/write..


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **OnUndo**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ComboBox** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This property is helpful for programmatically changing the action Microsoft Access takes when an event is triggered. For example, between event calls you may want to change an expression's parameters, or switch from an event procedure to an expression or macro, depending on the circumstances under which the event was triggered.

Valid values for this property are "macroname" where macroname is the name of macro, "[Event Procedure]" which indicates the event procedure associated with the Undo event for the specified object, or "=functionname()" where functionname is the name of a user-defined function.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example specifies that when the  **Undo** event occurs on the first form of the current project, the associated event procedure should run.


```
Forms(0).OnUndo = "[Event Procedure]"
```

The following example specifies that when the  **Undo** event occurs in any text box on the first form of the current project, the associated event procedure should run.




```
Dim ctlLoop As Control 
 
For Each ctlLoop In Forms(0).Controls 
 If ctlLoop.Type = acTextBox Then 
 ctlLoop.OnUndo = "[Event Procedure]" 
 End If 
Next ctlLoop 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ComboBox Object](1cf508d5-023e-eb38-3991-71e82b2a4e7e.md)
#### Other resources


 [ComboBox Object Members](d0d83ca3-3698-295e-5335-7d0816557d6b.md)
