
# Open Method (ADO Recordset)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Opens a cursor.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _recordset_. **Open** _Source_, _ActiveConnection_, _CursorType_, _LockType_, _Options_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Source_
    
- Optional. A  **Variant** that evaluates to a valid[Command](64f4ef03-f858-c004-b891-0c96d13a5e6e.md) object, an SQL statement, a table name, a stored procedure call, a URL, or the name of a file or[Stream](d49b1514-e0b4-0aca-d5c2-8266f3f4fe65.md) object containing a persistently stored[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md).
    
-  _ActiveConnection_
    
- Optional. Either a  **Variant** that evaluates to a valid[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object variable name, or a **String** that contains[ConnectionString](c67a7daf-258f-d99d-6475-a4aa98d1e99d.md) parameters.
    
-  _CursorType_
    
- Optional. A [CursorTypeEnum](7c5fa8b2-85ea-a0a7-41f1-a78650aced3e.md) value that determines the type of cursor that the provider should use when opening the **Recordset**. The default value is **adOpenForwardOnly**.
    
-  _LockType_
    
- Optional. A [LockTypeEnum](966b4952-5591-4a99-82d5-99cb9ae3fc72.md) value that determines what type of locking (concurrency) the provider should use when opening the **Recordset**. The default value is **adLockReadOnly**.
    
-  _Options_
    
- Optional. A  **Long** value that indicates how the provider should evaluate the _Source_ argument if it represents something other than a **Command** object, or that the **Recordset** should be restored from a file where it was previously saved. Can be one or more[CommandTypeEnum](9ad8f155-88a0-00eb-2855-1e1a2a677437.md) or[ExecuteOptionEnum](bd6d44a3-e471-7aa0-3e65-6775334de2ff.md) values, which can be combined with a bitwise AND operator.
    

 **Note**  If you open a  **Recordset** from a **Stream** containing a persisted **Recordset**, using an **ExecuteOptionEnum** value of **adAsyncFetchNonBlocking** will not have an effect; the fetch will be synchronous and blocking.

The  **ExecuteOpenEnum** values of **adExecuteNoRecords** or **adExecuteStream** should not be used with **Open**.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The default cursor for an ADO  **Recordset** is a forward-only, read-only cursor located on the server.

Using the  **Open** method on a **Recordset** object opens a cursor that represents records from a base table, the results of a query, or a previously saved **Recordset**.

Use the optional  _Source_ argument to specify a data source using one of the following: a **Command** object variable, an SQL statement, a stored procedure, a table name, a URL, or a complete file path name. If _Source_ is a file path name, it can be a full path ("c:\dir\file.rst"), a relative path ("..\file.rst"), or a URL ("http://files/file.rst").

It is not a good idea to use the  _Source_ argument of the **Open** method to perform an action query that doesnt return records because there is no easy way to determine whether the call succeeded. The **Recordset** returned by such a query will be closed. Call the[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/01812c8c-403e-4428-23f6-86bda747bd0e%28Office.15%29.aspx) method of a **Command** object or the[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/af190bd9-7167-df59-29ca-a9a86c4957fd%28Office.15%29.aspx) method of a **Connection** object instead to perform a query that, such as a SQL INSERT statement, that doesnt return records.

The  _ActiveConnection_ argument corresponds to the[ActiveConnection](5501b2d7-b62c-5fff-1edd-2b7efb3f8c4a.md) property and specifies in which connection to open the **Recordset** object. If you pass a connection definition for this argument, ADO opens a new connection using the specified parameters. After opening the **Recordset** with a client-side cursor ( **CursorLocation** = **adUseClient** ), you can change the value of this property to send updates to another provider. Or you can set this property to **Nothing** (in Microsoft Visual Basic) or NULL to disconnect the **Recordset** from any provider. Changing **ActiveConnection** for a server-side cursor generates an error, however.

For the other arguments that correspond directly to properties of a  **Recordset** object ( _Source_, _CursorType_, and _LockType_ ), the relationship of the arguments to the properties is as follows:


- The property is read/write before the  **Recordset** object is opened.
    
- The property settings are used unless you pass the corresponding arguments when executing the  **Open** method. If you pass an argument, it overrides the corresponding property setting, and the property setting is updated with the argument value.
    
- After you open the  **Recordset** object, these properties become read-only.
    

 **Note**  The  **ActiveConnection** property is read only for **Recordset** objects whose[Source](523ea81e-d011-8d87-436e-084b6eba0908.md) property is set to a valid **Command** object, even if the **Recordset** object isn't open.

If you pass a  **Command** object in the _Source_ argument and also pass an _ActiveConnection_ argument, an error occurs. The **ActiveConnection** property of the **Command** object must already be set to a valid **Connection** object or connection string.

If you pass something other than a  **Command** object in the _Source_ argument, you can use the _Options_ argument to optimize evaluation of the _Source_ argument. If the _Options_ argument is not defined, you may experience diminished performance because ADO must make calls to the provider to determine if the argument is an SQL statement, a stored procedure, a URL, or a table name. If you know what _Source_ type you're using, setting the _Options_ argument instructs ADO to jump directly to the relevant code. If the _Options_ argument does not match the _Source_ type, an error occurs.

If you pass a  **Stream** object in the _Source_ argument, you should not pass information into the other arguments. Doing so will generate an error. The **ActiveConnection** information is not retained when a **Recordset** is opened from a **Stream**.

The default for the  _Options_ argument is **adCmdFile** if no connection is associated with the **Recordset**. This will typically be the case for persistently stored **Recordset** objects.

If the data source returns no records, the provider sets both the [BOF](f797e140-5572-1a4d-9afc-285f6a3868a8.md) and[EOF](f797e140-5572-1a4d-9afc-285f6a3868a8.md) properties to **True**, and the current record position is undefined. You can still add new data to this empty **Recordset** object if the cursor type allows it.

When you have concluded your operations over an open  **Recordset** object, use the[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md) method to free any associated system resources. Closing an object does not remove it from memory; you can change its property settings and use the **Open** method to open it again later. To completely eliminate an object from memory, set the object variable to _Nothing_.

Before the  **ActiveConnection** property is set, call **Open** with no operands to create an instance of a **Recordset** created by appending fields to the **Recordset**[Fields](029aa738-8726-54a6-1813-b152813948bc.md) collection.

If you have set the [CursorLocation](8a048bd4-ae25-a555-1c07-14364b7e6560.md) property to **adUseClient**, you can retrieve rows asynchronously in one of two ways. The recommended method is to set _Options_ to **adAsyncFetch**. Alternatively, you can use the "Asynchronous Rowset Processing" dynamic property in the[Properties](4d662790-1252-c930-e6f9-edf6a38636af.md) collection, but related retrieved events can be lost if you do not set the **Options** parameter to **adAsyncFetch**.


 **Note**  Background fetching in the MS Remote provider is supported only through the  **Open** method's _Options_ parameter.


 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).

