
# WillConnect Event (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



The  **WillConnect** event is called before a connection starts.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **WillConnect** _ConnectionString_, _UserID_, _Password_, _Options_, _adStatus_, _pConnection_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _ConnectionString_
    
- A  **String** that contains connection information for the pending connection.
    
-  _UserID_
    
- A  **String** that contains a user name for the pending connection.
    
-  _Password_
    
- A  **String** that contains a password for the pending connection.
    
-  _Options_
    
- A  **Long** value that indicates how the provider should evaluate the _ConnectionString_. Your only option is **adAsyncOpen**.
    
-  _adStatus_
    
- [EventStatusEnum](ae1711bc-2af5-04fd-7d8c-222d8afc9d3d.md)
    
    When this event is called, this parameter is set to  **adStatusOK** by default. It is set to **adStatusCantDeny** if the event cannot request cancellation of the pending operation.
    
    Before this event returns, set this parameter to  **adStatusUnwantedEvent** to prevent subsequent notifications. Set this parameter to **adStatusCancel** to request the connection operation that caused cancellation of this notification.
    
-  _pConnection_
    
- The [Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object for which this event notification applies. Changes to the parameters of the **Connection** by the **WillConnect** event handler will have no effect on the **Connection**.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

When  **WillConnect** is called, the _ConnectionString_, _UserID_, _Password_, and _Options_ parameters are set to the values established by the operation that caused this event (the pending connection), and can be changed before the event returns. **WillConnect** may return a request that the pending connection be canceled.

When this event is canceled,  **ConnectComplete** will be called with its _adStatus_ parameter set to **adStatusErrorsOccurred**.

