
# Recordset2.MovePrevious Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Moves to the previous record in a specified  **Recordset** object and make that record the current record.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **MovePrevious**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset2** object.


## Remarks

Use the  **Move** methods to move from record to record without applying a condition.

If you edit the current record, be sure you use the  **Update** method to save the changes before you move to another record. If you move to another record without updating, your changes are lost without warning.

When you open a  **Recordset**, the first record is current and the **BOF** property is **False**. If the **Recordset** contains no records, the **BOF** property is **True**, and there is no current record.

If you use  **MovePrevious** when the first record is current, the **BOF** property is **True**, and there is no current record. If you use **MovePrevious** again, an error occurs, and **BOF** remains **True**.

If  _recordset_ refers to a table-type **Recordset** (Microsoft Access workspaces only), movement follows the current index. You can set the current index by using the **Index** property. If you don't set the current index, the order of returned records is undefined.

You can't use the  **MoveFirst**, **MoveLast**, and **MovePrevious** methods on a forward-only-type **Recordset** object.

To move the position of the current record in a  **Recordset** object a specific number of records forward or backward, use the **Move** method.

