
# Form.PaletteSource Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **PaletteSource** property to specify the palette for a form. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **PaletteSource**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Form** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Enter the path and file name of one of the following file types:


- .dib (device-independent bitmap file)
    
- .pal (Windows palette file)
    
- .ico (Windows icon file)
    
- .bmp (Windows bitmap file)
    
- .wmf or .emf file, or other graphics file for which you have a graphics filter
    
The default setting is (Default), which specifies the palette included with Microsoft Access. If you change this setting by entering a path and file name, the property setting displays (Custom).

For a form, you can set the  **PaletteSource** property in form Design view and Form view. The property setting is unavailable in other views.

Windows can have only one color palette active at a time. Microsoft Access allows you to have multiple graphics on a form, each using a different color palette. The  **PaletteSource** and **PaintPalette**properties let you specify which color palette a form uses when displaying graphics.

When you set the  **PaletteSource** property for a form or report, Microsoft Access automatically updates its **PaintPalette** property. Conversely, when you set a form's or report's **PaintPalette** property, the **PaletteSource** property is also updated. For example, when you specify a custom palette with the **PaintPalette** property, the **PaletteSource** property setting changes to (Custom). The **PaintPalette** property (which is available only in a macro or Visual Basic) is used to set the palette for the form or report. The **PaletteSource** property gives you a way to set the palette for the form or report in the property sheet by using an existing graphics file.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the  **PaintPalette** property of the Seascape form to the **ObjectPalette** property of the Ocean control on the DisplayPictures form. (Ocean can be a bound object frame, command button, chart, toggle button, or unbound object frame.)


```
Forms!Seascape.PaintPalette = _ 
 Forms!DisplayPictures!Ocean.ObjectPalette
```

The  **ObjectPalette** and **PaintPalette** properties are useful for programmatically altering the color palette in use by an open form at run time. A common use of these properties is to set the current form's **PaintPalette** property to the palette of a graphic displayed in a control that has the focus.

For example, you can have a form with an ocean picture, showing many shades of blue, and a sunset picture, showing many shades of red. Since Windows only allows one color palette active at a time, one picture will look much better than the other. The following example uses a control's Enter event for setting the form's  **PaintPalette** property to the control's **ObjectPalette** property so the graphic that has the focus will have an optimal appearance.




```
Sub OceanPicture_Enter() 
 Me.PaintPalette = Me!OceanPicture.ObjectPalette 
End Sub 
 
Sub SunsetPicture_Enter() 
 Me.PaintPalette = Me!SunsetPicture.ObjectPalette 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Form Object](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)
#### Other resources


 [Form Object Members](e1976b58-28ca-8f76-cdf3-6732cb06ce6c.md)
