
# Attachment.TabStop Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **TabStop** property to specify whether you can use the TAB key to move the focus to a control in Form view. Read/write **Boolean**.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **TabStop**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Attachment** object.


## Remarks

The  **TabStop** property uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Visual Basic**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Yes| **True**|(Default) You can move the focus to the control by pressing the TAB key.|
|No| **False**|You cannot move the focus to the control by pressing the TAB key.|
When you create a control on a form, Microsoft Access automatically assigns the control a position in the form's tab order. Each new control is placed last in the tab order. If you want to prevent a control from being available when you tab through the controls in a form, set the control's  **TabStop** property to No.

In Form view, hidden or disabled controls remain in the tab order but are skipped when you move through the controls by pressing TAB, even if their  **TabStop** properties are set to Yes.

As long as a control's  **Enabled**property is set to Yes, you can click the control or use an access key to select it, regardless of its  **TabStop** property setting. For example, you can set the **TabStop** property of a command button to No to prevent users from selecting the button by pressing TAB. However, they can still click the command button to select it.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Attachment Object](b0756145-9012-f9b9-7df9-e168defed3bf.md)
#### Other resources


 [Attachment Object Members](4294b913-7691-5f45-2c20-5137c2320620.md)
