
# Report.PrintCount Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **PrintCount** property to identify the number of times the **OnPrint**property has been evaluated for the current section of a report. Read/write  **Integer**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **PrintCount**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Report** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use this property only in a macro or an  [event procedure](3fa3677b-a779-3bc7-0f0f-827c252b3292.md)specified by a section's  **OnPrint** property setting.

Microsoft Access increments the  **PrintCount** property each time the **OnPrint** property setting is evaluated for the current section. As the next section is printed, Microsoft Access resets the **PrintCount** property to 0.

This property isn't available in report Design view.

The  **PrintCount** property is incremented, for example, when the ** [KeepTogether](dbe3780b-2150-4b4c-d8bf-5685ab48181e.md)**property is set to No for the current section and the section is printed on more than one page. If you print a report containing order information, you might keep a running total of the order amounts.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example shows how you can use the  **PrintCount** property to make sure the value in the OrderAmount control is added only once to the running total.

 RunningTotal can be a public variable or the name of an unbound control that is incremented each time a section is printed.




```
Private Sub Detail_Format(Cancel As Integer, FormatCount As Integer) 
 If PrintCount = 1 Then 
 RunningTotal = RunningTotal + OrderAmount 
 End If 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Report Object](6f77c1b4-a9ce-7caa-204c-fe0755c6f9df.md)
#### Other resources


 [Report Object Members](73370a33-1ca0-da4d-9e36-88011bc2b93e.md)
