
# Form.GoToPage Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


The  **GoToPage** method moves the focus to the first control on a specified page in the active form.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **GoToPage**( **_PageNumber_**,  **_Right_**,  **_Down_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Form** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|PageNumber|Required| **Long**|A numeric expression that's a valid page number for the active form.|
|Right|Optional| **Long**|A numeric expression that's a valid horizontal offset (in twips) from the left side of the window to the part of the page to be viewed.|
|Down|Optional| **Long**|A numeric expression that's a valid vertical offset (in twips) from the top of the window to the part of the page to be viewed.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

When you use this method to move to a specified page of a form, the focus is set to the first control on the page, as defined by the form's tab order. To move to a particular control on the form, use the  **SetFocus**method.

You can use the  **GoToPage** method if you've created page breaks on a form to group related information. For example, you might have an Employees form with personal information on the first page, office information on the second page, and sales information on the third page. You can use the **GoToPage** method to move to the desired page.

You can use the right anddown arguments for forms with pages larger than the Microsoft Access window. Use thepagenumber argument to move to the desired page, and then use theright anddown arguments to display the part of the page you want to see. Microsoft Access displays the part of the page that's offset from the upper-left corner of the window by the distance specified in theright anddown arguments.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **GoToPage** method to move the focus to the second page of the Customer form at the position specified by theright anddown arguments:


```
Forms!Customer.GoToPage 2, 1440, 600
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Form Object](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)
#### Other resources


 [Form Object Members](e1976b58-28ca-8f76-cdf3-6732cb06ce6c.md)
