
# Report.FilterOn Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **FilterOn** property to specify or determine whether the **Filter**property for a form or report is applied. Read/write  **Boolean**.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **FilterOn**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Report** object.


## Remarks

If you want to specify a server filter within a Microsoft Access project (.adp) for data located on a server, use the  **ServerFilter**property.

To apply a saved filter, press the  **Apply Filter** button for forms, or apply the filter by using a macro or Visual Basic by setting the **FilterOn** property to **True** for forms or reports. For reports, you can set the **FilterOn** property to Yes in the report's property sheet.

The  **Apply Filter** button indicates the state of the **Filter** and **FilterOn** properties. The button remains disabled until there is a filter to apply. If an existing filter is currently applied, the **Apply Filter** button appears pressed in. To apply a filter automatically when a form or report is opened, specify in the **OnOpen** event property setting of the form either a macro that uses the ApplyFilter action or an event procedure that uses the **ApplyFilter**method of the  **DoCmd** object.

You can remove a filter by clicking the pressed-in  **Apply Filter** button, clicking **Remove Filter/Sort** on the **Records** menu, or by using Visual Basic to set the **FilterOn** property to **False**. For reports, you can remove a filter by setting the  **FilterOn** property to No in the report's property sheet.


 **Note**  When a new object is created, it inherits the  **RecordSource**,  **Filter**,  **ServerFilter**.  **OrderBy**, and  **OrderByOn**properties of the table or query it was created from. For forms and reports, inherited filters aren't automatically applied when an object is opened.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Report Object](6f77c1b4-a9ce-7caa-204c-fe0755c6f9df.md)
#### Other resources


 [Report Object Members](73370a33-1ca0-da4d-9e36-88011bc2b93e.md)
