
# Label.FontBold Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **FontBold** property to specify whether a font appears in a bold style in the following situations:


- When displaying or printing controls on forms and reports.
    
- When using the  **Print**method on a report.
    
 Read/write **Boolean**.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **FontBold**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Label** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **FontBold** property uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| **True**|The text is bold.|
| **False**|(Default) The text isn't bold.|
To use the  **FontBold** property on a report, first create a **Print**event procedure that prints the desired text.

A font's appearance on screen and in print may differ, depending on your computer and printer.

The  **FontWeight**property, which is available in the property sheet for controls, can also be used to set the line width for a control's text. The  **FontBold** property gives you a quick way to make text bold; the **FontWeight** property gives you finer control over the line width setting for text. The following table shows the relationship between these properties' settings.



|**If**|**Then**|
|:-----|:-----|
| **FontBold** = **False**| **FontWeight** = Normal (400)|
| **FontBold** = **True**| **FontWeight** = Bold (700)|
| **FontWeight** < 700| **FontBold** = **False**|
| **FontWeight** > = 700| **FontBold** = **True**|

## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Print event procedure prints a report title and the current date in a bold style on a report at the coordinates specified by the  **CurrentX** and **CurrentY** property settings.


```
Private Sub ReportHeader0_Print(Cancel As Integer, _ 
 PrintCount As Integer) 
 Dim MyDate 
 
 MyDate = Date 
 Me.FontBold = True 
 ' Print report title in bold. 
 Me.Print("Sales Management Report") 
 Me.Print(MyDate) 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Label Object](3d83d916-85d7-b2eb-c9f6-f9a6ff0c9ec7.md)
#### Other resources


 [Label Object Members](a47442ed-c770-49a4-3bd1-76e3e05bddca.md)
