
# Application.DDEExecute Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **DDEExecute** statement to send a command from a client application to a server application over an open dynamic data exchange (DDE) channel.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **DDEExecute**( **_ChanNum_**,  **_Command_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ChanNum|Required| **Variant**|A channel number, the long integer returned by the  ** [DDEInitiate](7b05c3ad-574e-d904-5d50-ff646486ef07.md)**function.|
|Command|Required| **String**|a command recognized by the server application. Check the server application's documentation for a list of these commands.|

## Remarks

For example, suppose you've opened a DDE channel in Microsoft Access to transfer text data from a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet into a Microsoft Access database. Use the  **DDEExecute** statement to send the **New** command to Microsoft Excel to specify that you wish to open a new spreadsheet. In this example, Microsoft Access acts as the client application, and Microsoft Excel acts as the server application.

The value of the command argument depends on the application and topic specified when the channel indicated by thechannum argument is opened. An error occurs if thechannum argument isn't an integer corresponding to an open channel or if the other application can't carry out the specified command.

From Visual Basic, you can use the  **DDEExecute** statement only to send commands to another application. For information on sending commands to Microsoft Access from another application, see [Use Microsoft Access as a DDE Server](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/a3e82bf7-94b5-8eec-86bc-2d5387d66738%28Office.15%29.aspx).

If you need to manipulate another application's objects from Microsoft Access, you may want to consider using Automation.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](aefb0713-97e6-e2c7-e530-8fd2e1316a55.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](3ab5276c-d52a-72a9-244c-ec92ead48811.md)
