
# Report.TextWidth Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **TextWidth** method returns the width of a text string as it would be printed in the current font of a ** [Report](6f77c1b4-a9ce-7caa-204c-fe0755c6f9df.md)**object.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **TextWidth**( **_Expr_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Report** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Expr|Required| **String**|The text string for which the text width will be determined.|

### Return Value

Single


## Remarks

You can use the  **TextWidth** method to determine the amount of horizontal space a text string will require in the current font when the report is formatted and printed. For example, a text string formatted in 9-point Arial will require a different amount of space than one formatted in 12-point Courier. To determine the current font and font size for text in a report, check the settings for the report's **FontName**and  **FontSize**properties.

The value returned by the  **TextWidth** method is expressed in terms of the coordinate system in effect for the report, as defined by the **Scale**method. You can use the  **ScaleMode**property to determine the coordinate system currently in effect for the report.

If the strexpr argument contains embedded carriage returns, the **TextWidth** method returns the width of the longest line, from the beginning of the line to the carriage return. You can use the value returned by the **TextWidth** method to calculate the necessary space and positioning for multiple lines of text within a report.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Report Object](6f77c1b4-a9ce-7caa-204c-fe0755c6f9df.md)
#### Other resources


 [Report Object Members](73370a33-1ca0-da4d-9e36-88011bc2b93e.md)
