
# CustomControl.Custom Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **String** representing the custom properties dialog box for an ActiveX control. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Custom**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **CustomControl** object.


## Remarks

Not all ActiveX controls provide a custom properties dialog box. To see whether a control provides this custom properties dialog box, look for the  **Custom** property in the Microsoft Access property sheet for this control. If the list of properties contains the name **Custom**, then the control provides the custom properties dialog box.

After you click the  **Custom** property box in the Microsoft Access property sheet, click the **Build** button to the right of the property box to display the control's custom properties dialog box, often presented as a tabbed dialog box. Choose the tab that contains the interface for setting the properties that you want to set.

After you make changes on one tab, you can often apply those changes immediately by clicking the  **Apply** button (if provided). You can click other tabs to set other properties as needed. To approve all changes made in the custom properties dialog box, click the **OK** button. To return to the Microsoft Access property sheet without changing any property settings, click the **Cancel** button.

You can also view the custom properties dialog box by clicking the  **Properties** subcommand of the ActiveX control **Object** command (for example, **Calendar Control Object**) on the  **Edit** menu, or by clicking this same subcommand on the shortcut menu for the ActiveX control. In addition, some properties in the Microsoft Access property sheet for the ActiveX control, like the **GridFontColor** property of the Calendar control, have a **Build** button to the right of the property box. When you click the **Build** button, the custom properties dialog box is displayed, with the appropriate tab selected (for example, **Colors**).


## See also


#### Concepts


 [CustomControl Object](a6ded8cf-4cf8-26ff-bade-f37a7ac52b02.md)
#### Other resources


 [CustomControl Object Members](3093550b-7994-fb58-044c-90e8da535f9d.md)
