
# CreateRecord Data Block (Access custom web app)
You can use the  **CreateRecord** data block to create a new record in the specified table.

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **Note**  The  **CreateRecord** data block is available only in Data Macros.


## Setting

The  **CreateRecord** data block has the following arguments.

The  **CreateRecord** data block has the following arguments.



|**Argument name**|**Required**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**Create a Record In**|Yes|The name of the table to create the new record in. |
|**Alias**|No|A string that identifies the record. You can use the record's alias to identify|

## Remarks

The record created by  **CreateRecord** automatically becomes the current record.

After  **CreateRecord** statement, you can insert a block of commands that will execute before the new record is committed. The following actions are available in a **CreateRecord** data block.


||
|:-----|
|[CancelRecordChange Macro Action](cbdbee8c-70d6-45df-a56b-5f7c6e5bdc6d.md)|
|[Comment Macro Statement](1d8977a0-e787-415f-adc0-2e0c53a364a4.md)|
|[Group Macro Statement](312bcad2-b364-4b4c-a8f9-40e11330bde0.md)|
|[If...Then...Else Macro Statement](18d28dc1-c41f-47c6-b5c7-258d5f877d01.md)|
|[SetField Macro Action](9ae292b0-fde0-4c2b-ba23-23e90365597d.md)|
|[SetLocalVar Macro Action](12444313-1cfa-49ff-89da-3030fe75c13e.md)|
After the  **CreateRecord** action creates a record, use the **SetField** action to specify a value of a field in the new record.

You can use an  **If...Then...Else** statement to perform operations based on a condition.

To cancel the creation of a record, use the  **CancelRecordChange** action. This prevents the changes from being committed and exits the **CreateRecord** data block.

Once the new record is committed, you can use the  **LastCreateRecordIdentity** local variable to work with the record. For example, use the following syntax to refer to the AssignedTo field of the most recently created record.




```
[LastCreateRecordIdentity].[AssignedTo]
```

