
# ListBox.ColumnCount Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **ColumnCount** property to specify the number of columns displayed in a list box or in the list box portion of a combo box, or sent to OLE objects in a chart control or unbound object frame . Read/write **Integer**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ColumnCount**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ListBox** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **ColumnCount** property holds an integer between 1 and the maximum number of fields in the table, query, or SQL statement, or the maximum number of values in the value list, specified in the **RowSource**property of the control.

For  [table fields](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/b2bf5df9-f8f4-4cca-7a09-1271350e3614%28Office.15%29.aspx), you can set this property on the  **Lookup** tab in the Field Properties section of table Design view for fields with the **DisplayControl**property set to Combo Box or List Box.

For example, if you set the  **ColumnCount** property for a list box on an Employees form to 3, one column can list last names, another can list first names, and the third can list employee ID numbers.

A combo box or list box can have multiple columns. If the control's  **RowSource** property contains the name of a table, query, or SQL statement, a combo box or list box will display the fields from that source, from left to right, up to the number specified by the **ColumnCount** property.

To display a different combination of fields, create either a new query or a new SQL statement for the  **RowSource** property, specifying the fields and the order you want.

If the  **RowSource** property contains a list of values (the **RowSourceType** property is set to Value List), the values are put into the rows and columns of the combo box or list box in the order they are listed in the **RowSource** property. For example, if the **RowSource** property contains the list "Red; Green; Blue; Yellow" and the **ColumnCount** property is set to 2, the first row of the combo box or list box list will contain "Red" in the first column and "Green" in the second column. The second row will contain "Blue" in the first column and "Yellow" in the second column.

You can use the  **ColumnWidths**property to set the width of the columns displayed in the control, or to hide columns.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **Column** property and the **ColumnCount** property to print the values of a list box selection.


```
Public Sub Read_ListBox() 
 
 Dim intNumColumns As Integer 
 Dim intI As Integer 
 Dim frmCust As Form 
 
 Set frmCust = Forms!frmCustomers 
 If frmCust!lstCustomerNames.ItemsSelected.Count > 0 Then 
 
 ' Any selection? 
 intNumColumns = frmCust!lstCustomerNames.ColumnCount 
 Debug.Print "The list box contains "; intNumColumns; _ 
 IIf(intNumColumns = 1, " column", " columns"); _ 
 " of data." 
 
 Debug.Print "The current selection contains:" 
 For intI = 0 To intNumColumns - 1 
 ' Print column data. 
 Debug.Print frmCust!lstCustomerNames.Column(intI) 
 Next intI 
 Else 
 Debug.Print "You haven't selected an entry in the " _ 
 &amp; "list box." 
 End If 
 
 Set frmCust = Nothing 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ListBox Object](6bc00755-34e7-4fc2-8e72-40dae2010dd8.md)
#### Other resources


 [ListBox Object Members](d87ad51b-9a46-21f3-f6d6-ef98ea8aaf6d.md)
