
# Property Object (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

A  **Property** object represents a built-in or user-defined characteristic of a DAO object.


## Remarks

Every DAO object except the  **Connection** and **Error** objects contains a **Properties** collection which has **Property** objects corresponding to built-in properties of that DAO object. The user can also define **Property** objects and append them to the **Properties** collection of some DAO objects. These **Property** objects (which are often just called properties) uniquely characterize that instance of the object.

You can create user-defined properties for the following objects:


-  **Database**, **Index**, **QueryDef**, and **TableDef** objects
    
-  **Field** objects in **Fields** collections of **QueryDef** and **TableDef** objects
    
To add a user-defined property, use the  **CreateProperty** method to create a **Property** object with a unique **Name** property setting. Set the **Type** and **Value** properties of the new **Property** object, and then append it to the **Properties** collection of the appropriate object. The object to which you are adding the user-defined property must already be appended to a collection. Referencing a user-defined **Property** object that has not yet been appended to a **Properties** collection will cause an error, as will appending a user-defined **Property** object to a **Properties** collection containing a **Property** object of the same name.

You can delete user-defined properties from the  **Properties** collection, but you can't delete built-in properties.


 **Note**  A user-defined  **Property** object is associated only with the specific instance of an object. The property isn't defined for all instances of objects of the selected type.

You can use the  **Properties** collection of an object to enumerate the object's built-in and user-defined properties. You don't need to know beforehand exactly which properties exist or what their characteristics ( **Name** and **Type** properties) are to manipulate them. However, if you try to read a write-only property, such as the **Password** property of a **Workspace** object, or try to read or write a property in an inappropriate context, such as the **Value** property setting of a **Field** object in the **Fields** collection of a **TableDef** object, an error occurs.

The  **Property** object also has four built-in properties:


- The  **Name** property, a **String** that uniquely identifies the property.
    
- The  **Type** property, an **Integer** that specifies the property data type.
    
- The  **Value** property, a **Variant** that contains the property setting.
    
- The  **Inherited** property, a **Boolean** that indicates whether the property is inherited from another object. For example, a **Field** object in a **Fields** collection of a **Recordset** object can inherit properties from the underlying **TableDef** or **QueryDef** object.
    
To refer to a built-in  **Property** object in a collection by its ordinal number or by its **Name** property setting, use any of the following syntax forms:


-  _object_ **.Properties** (0)
    
-  _object_ **.Properties** (" _name_ ")
    
-  _object_ **.Properties** ![ _name_ ]
    
For a built-in property, you can also use this syntax:


-  _object_. _name_
    

 **Note**  For a user-defined property, you must use the full  _object_ **.Properties** (" _name_ ") syntax.

With the same syntax forms, you can also refer to the  **Value** property of a **Property** object. The context of the reference will determine whether you are referring to the **Property** object itself or the **Value** property of the **Property** object.

