
# QueryTable.Connection Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets a string that contains one of the following: OLE DB settings that enable Microsoft Excel to connect to an OLE DB data source; ODBC settings that enable Microsoft Excel to connect to an ODBC data source; a URL that enables Microsoft Excel to connect to a Web data source; the path to and file name of a text file, or the path to and file name of a file that specifies a database or Web query. Read/write  **Variant**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Connection**

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **QueryTable** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Setting the  **Connection** property doesn't immediately initiate the connection to the data source. You must use the ** [Refresh](445d74fb-1a9c-bba4-2d53-0ab0caa876da.md)**method to make the connection and retrieve the data.

For more information about the connection string syntax, see the  ** [Add](ac6cd03e-31aa-cd8c-aa67-a551894c6eb3.md)**method of the  **QueryTables** collection.

Alternatively, you may choose to access a data source directly by using the Microsoft ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) library instead.

If you import data using the user interface, data from a Web query or a text query is imported as a  ** [QueryTable](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)** object, while all other external data is imported as a ** [ListObject](46de6c4f-8ce0-0c7d-da59-6e52f5eab612.md)** object.

If you import data using the object model, data from a Web query or a text query must be imported as a  **QueryTable**, while all other external data can be imported as either a  **ListObject** or a **QueryTable**.

You can use the  ** [QueryTable](fe019d61-654a-9c87-0bf4-30590a1274ca.md)** property of the **ListObject** to access the **Connection** property.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example supplies new ODBC connection information for the first query table on the first worksheet.


```
Worksheets(1).QueryTables(1) _ 
 .Connection:="ODBC;DSN=96SalesData;UID=Rep21;PWD=NUyHwYQI;"
```

This example specifies a text file.




```
Worksheets(1).QueryTables(1) _ 
 Connection := "TEXT;C:\My Documents\19980331.txt"
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [QueryTable Object](505b84ea-64b3-b4fe-741a-de6884eb69eb.md)
#### Other resources


 [QueryTable Object Members](9a61f024-c1dc-c11b-942f-ff2a6617bdc4.md)
