
# Set a Reference to a Visual Basic Project in Another Microsoft Access Database or Project

 **Last modified:** July 29, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013 Preview_

EachAccess database includes a Visual Basic project. The Visual Basic project is the set of all modules in the project, including both standard modules and class modules. Every Access database, library database, or add-in contained in an .mde file includes a Visual Basic project.

The name of the Access database and the name of the project can differ. The name of the Access database is determined by the name of the .mdb (or .mda or .mde) or .adp file, while the name of the project is determined by the setting of the  **Project Name** option on the **General** tab of the _ProjectName -_**Project Properties** dialog box, available by clicking **_ProjectName_ Properties** on the **Tools** menu in the Visual Basic Editor. When you first create a database (.mdb or .adp), the database name and project name are the same by default. However, if you rename the database, the project name doesn't automatically change. Likewise, changing the project name has no effect on the database name.
You can set a reference from a Visual Basic project in one Access database to a project in another Access database, a library database, or an add-in contained in an .mde file. Once you've set a reference, you can run Visual Basic procedures in the referenced project. For example, the Northwind sample database includes a module named Utility Functions that contains a function called IsLoaded. You can set a reference to the project in the Northwind sample database from the project in the current database, and then call the IsLoaded function just as you would if it were defined within the current database.

 **Note**  

