
# ListBox.RowSourceType Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **RowSourceType** property (along with the **RowSource** property) to tell Microsoft Access how to provide data tothe specified object. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **RowSourceType**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ListBox** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **RowSourceType** property uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|Table/Query|(Default) The data is from a table, query, or SQL statement specified by the  **RowSource** setting.|
|Value List|The data is a list of items specified by the  **RowSource** setting.|
|Field List|The data is a list of field names from a table, query, or SQL statement specified by the  **RowSource** setting.|

 **Note**  You can also set the  **RowSourceType** property with a user-defined function. The function name is entered without a preceding equal sign (=) and without the trailing pair of parentheses. You must provide [specific function code arguments](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1c39d168-e020-2a98-f902-29c00de137ad%28Office.15%29.aspx)to tell Microsoft Access how to fill the control. 

In Visual Basic, set the  **RowSourceType** property by using a string expression with one of these values: `"Table/Query"`,  `"Value List"`, or  `"Field List"`. You also use a string expression to set the value of the  **RowSource** property. To set the **RowSourceType** property to a user-defined function, enter the name of the function.

When you have a limited number of values that don't change, you can set the  **RowSourceType** property to Value List and then enter the values that make up the list in the **RowSource** property.

When you create a user-defined function to insert items into a list box or combo box, Microsoft Access calls the function repeatedly to get the information it needs. User-defined  **RowSourceType** functions must be written in a very specific [function format](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1c39d168-e020-2a98-f902-29c00de137ad%28Office.15%29.aspx).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the  **RowSourceType** property for a combo box to Table/Query, and it sets the **RowSource** property to a query named EmployeeList.


```
Forms!Employees!cmboNames.RowSourceType = "Table/Query" 
Forms!Employees!cmboNames.RowSource = "EmployeeList"
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ListBox Object](6bc00755-34e7-4fc2-8e72-40dae2010dd8.md)
#### Other resources


 [ListBox Object Members](d87ad51b-9a46-21f3-f6d6-ef98ea8aaf6d.md)
