
# BoundObjectFrame.SourceItem Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **SourceItem** property to specify the data within a file to be linked when you create a linked OLE object. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **SourceItem**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **BoundObjectFrame** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can set the  **SourceItem** property by specifying data in units recognized by the application supplying the object. For example, when you link to Microsoft Excel, you specify the **SourceItem** property setting by using a cell or cell-range reference such as R1C1 or R3C4:R9C22 or a named range such as Revenues.


 **Note**  To determine the syntax to describe a unit of data for a particular object, see the documentation for the application that was used to create the object.

The control's  **OLETypeAllowed**property must be set to Linked or Either when you use this property. Use the control's  **SourceDoc**property to specify the file to link.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example creates a linked OLE object using an unbound object frame named  `OLE1` and sizes the control to display the object's entire contents when the user clicks a command button.


```
Sub Command1_Click 
 OLE1.Class = "Excel.Sheet" ' Set class name. 
 ' Specify type of object. 
 OLE1.OLETypeAllowed = acOLELinked 
 ' Specify source file. 
 OLE1.SourceDoc = "C:\Excel\Oletext.xls" 
 ' Specify data to create link to. 
 OLE1.SourceItem = "R1C1:R5C5" 
 ' Create linked object. 
 OLE1.Action = acOLECreateLink 
 ' Adjust control size. 
 OLE1.SizeMode = acOLESizeZoom 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [BoundObjectFrame Object](b3025672-60b8-e1d6-4769-1f724c9aa1ef.md)
#### Other resources


 [BoundObjectFrame Object Members](e2bbeb0c-1b13-5953-999a-4a0b93cb3ec7.md)
