
# Access User Interface How Do I...

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013_

This page links to help on widely used user-interface tasks. For more information about other popular Help tasks, see  [How Do I… in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md).


## Ribbon


-  [How to: Apply a Custom Ribbon When Starting Access](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/9e8ddf95-35aa-4e57-8422-d770da14711e%28Office.15%29.aspx)
    
      - Describes how to display a custom ribbon when Access starts.
    
-  [How to: Apply a Custom Ribbon to a Form or Report](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7dcdfa42-3eaa-43f9-b99d-56b2cac97f84%28Office.15%29.aspx)
    
      - Describes how to display a custom ribbon when a particular form or report is opened.
    
-  [How to: Hide the Ribbon When Access Starts](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/f98bab58-8094-1c56-f70b-ced2e7849574%28Office.15%29.aspx)
    
      - Describes how to hide the ribbon when opening a database.
    

## Miscellaneous


-  [How to: Detect User Idle Time or Inactivity](40e9c4ef-a81b-074b-0be0-8247b4ea525b.md)
    
      - Illustrates how to use a hidden form to detect when a user has been inactive for a given period of time.
    
-  [How to: Detect Whether an Object Is Open](9378430d-752b-1ede-96af-235c7e79a06f.md)
    
      - Describes how to determine whether an object is already open.
    
-  [How to: Display and Use the File Dialog Box](e4690a8b-f976-3be9-70b0-2d8c2377a19a.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **FileDialog** object to display the file dialog box used by Microsoft Access and to determine what files were selected by the user.
    
-  [How to: Use Existing Custom Menus and Toolbars](581167ca-7c9c-4402-a9b7-49393750079c.md)
    
      - Describes how to use menu and toolbar customizations of databases created in earlier versions of Access.
    
-  [How to: Use the Status Bar Progress Meter](1ced64d3-56e4-064e-3dd2-d6b5e4dbdd8a.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **SysCmd** method to create a progress meter on the status bar.
    

-  [How Do I... in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md)
    
