
# Application Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **Application** object refers to the active Microsoft Access application.

## Remarks

The  **Application** object contains all Access objects and collections.

You can use the  **Application** object to apply methods or property settings to the entire Access application. For example, you can use the ** [SetOption](6cb1f036-01c2-16bf-f62a-e5235dfb3c65.md)**method of the  **Application** object to set database options from Visual Basic. The following example shows how you can set the **Display Status Bar** check box on the **Current Database** tab of the **Access Options** dialog box.




```
Application.SetOption "Show Status Bar", True
```

Access is a COM component that supports Automation, formerly called OLE Automation. You can manipulate Access objects from another application that also supports Automation. To do this, you use the  **Application** object.

For example, Microsoft Visual Basic is a COM component. You can open anAccess database from Visual Basic and work with its objects. From Visual Basic, first create a reference to the Access object library. Then create a new instance of the  **Application**class and point an object variable to it, as in the following example:




```
Dim appAccess As New Access.Application
```

From applications that do not support the  **New** keyword, you can create a new instance of the **Application** class by using the **CreateObject** function:




```
Dim appAccess As Object 
Set appAccess = CreateObject("Access.Application")
```

After you create a new instance of the  **Application** class, you can open a database or create a new database, by using either the ** [OpenCurrentDatabase](fd214849-02ac-eaa6-7525-9aee42b92f3d.md)**method or the  ** [NewCurrentDatabase](6934a77e-5fa0-7e43-e159-2ffc2a944dca.md)**method. You can then set the properties of the  **Application** object and call its methods. When you return a reference to the **CommandBars** object by using the **CommandBars**property of the  **Application** object, you can access all Microsoft Office command bar objects and collections by using this reference.

You can also manipulate other Access objects through the  **Application** object. For example, by using the ** [OpenForm](a1c9d3a9-2af8-c30a-acb0-6428c70dcdb0.md)**method of the Access  ** [DoCmd](3ce44cca-9979-0a1e-9787-079a52ce528f.md)**object, you can open an Access form from Microsoft Office Excel:




```
appAccess.DoCmd.OpenForm "Orders"
```

For more information about creating a reference and controlling objects by using Automation, see the documentation for the application that is acting as the COM component.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](3ab5276c-d52a-72a9-244c-ec92ead48811.md)
