
# QuitAccess Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **QuitAccess** action to exit Microsoft Access. The **QuitAccess** action can also specify one of several options for saving database objects prior to exiting Access.


 **Note**  This action will not be allowed if the database is not trusted. For more information about enabling macros, see the links in the  **See Also** section of this article.


## Setting

The  **QuitAccess** action has the following argument.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Options**|Specifies what happens to unsaved objects when you quit Access. Click  **Prompt** (to display dialog boxes that ask whether to save each object), **Save All** (to save all objects without prompting by dialog boxes), or **Exit** (to quit without saving any objects) in the **Options** box in the **Action Arguments** section of the Macro Builder pane. The default is **Save All**.|

## Remarks

Access doesn't run any actions that follow the  **QuitAccess** action in a macro.

You can use this action to quit Access without prompts from  **Save** dialog boxes by using a custom menu command or a button on a form. For example, you might have a master form that you use to display the objects in your custom workspace. This form could have a **Quit** button that runs a macro containing the **QuitAccess** action with the **Options** argument set to **Save All**.

This action has the same effect as clicking the  **File** tab and then clicking **Exit**. If you have any unsaved objects when you click this command, the dialog boxes that appear are the same as those displayed when you use  **Prompt** for the **Options** argument of the **QuitAccess** action.

You can use the  **SaveObject** action in a macro to save a specified object without having to quit Access or close the object.

To run the  **QuitAccess** action in a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module, use the **Quit** method of the **DoCmd** object.

