
# AccessObjectProperty Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

An  **AccessObjectProperty** object represents a built-in or user-defined characteristic of an **AccessObject** object.

## Remarks

Every  **AccessObject** object contains an **AccessObjectProperties** collection that has **AccessObjectProperty** objects corresponding to the properties of that **AccessObject** object. The user can also define **AccessObjectProperty** objects and append them to the **AccessObjectProperties** collection of some **AccessObject** objects.

You can create user-defined properties for the following objects:


-  **CodeData**,  **CodeProject**,  **CurrentProject**, and  **CurrentData** objects
    
-  **AccessObject** objects in the following collections.
    

|**CurrentProject and CodeProject object collections**|**CodeData and CodeProject object collections**|
|:-----|:-----|
| ** [AllForms](b90616b9-90fc-bb51-6bfa-b149dece0f1b.md)**| ** [AllQueries](9b67f04c-2642-0dcc-2a64-8ca8fa7249b3.md)**|
| ** [AllReports](5846cf60-41b4-e9f8-ea27-b9400a6d3861.md)**| ** [AllViews](f56bee24-a972-fbdf-f74a-0ac83825e3bb.md)**|
| ** [AllMacros](a36ba978-f643-aca6-5efb-842723d17bbc.md)**| ** [AllStoredProcedures](896f4c2c-273c-2849-0f06-d75fa515c44a.md)**|
| ** [AllModules](322815ae-3afd-f299-0ce9-2e9dbbb8536a.md)**| ** [AllDatabaseDiagrams](417427aa-1783-29da-30c9-66a7032a0088.md)**|
| ** [AllTables](530bff2d-1d0b-4790-a0f4-ffc628e7f130.md)**||

 **Note**  The  **AccessObjectProperties** collection isn't accessible for objects derived from the **CurrentData** object (for example, CurrentData.AllTables!Table1). For objects derived in this manner, you can only access their built-in properties by direct calls to the desired property (for example, CurrentData.AllTables!Table1.Name).

To add a user-defined property, use the  **Add** method to create and add an **AccessObjectProperty** object with a unique **Name** property setting and **Value** property of the new **AccessObjectProperty** object to the **AccessObjectProperties** collection of the appropriate object. The object to which you are adding the user-defined property must already be appended to a collection. Referencing a user-defined **AccessObjectProperty** object that has not yet been appended to an **AccessObjectProperties** collection will cause an error, as will appending a user-defined **AccessObjectProperty** object to an **AccessObjectProperties** collection containing an **AccessObjectProperty** object of the same name.

You can delete user-defined properties from the  **AccessObjectProperties** collection.


 **Note**  A user-defined  **AccessObjectProperty** object is associated only with the specific instance of an object. The property isn't defined for all instances of objects of the selected type.

The  **AccessObjectProperty** object has two built-in properties:


- The  **Name** property, a **String** that uniquely identifies the property.
    
- The  **Value** property, a **Variant** that contains the property setting.
    
To refer to a built-in or user-defined  **AccessObjectProperty** object in a collection by its ordinal number or by its **Name** property setting, use any of the following syntax forms:




```
CurrentProject.AllForms("Form1").Properties(0) 
CurrentProject.AllForms("Form1").Properties("name") 
CurrentProject.AllForms("Form1").Properties![name]
```

With the same syntax forms, you can also refer to the  **Value** property of a **AccessObjectProperty** object. The context of the reference will determine whether you are referring to the **AccessObjectProperty** object itself or the **Value** property of the **AccessObjectProperty** object.


 **Note**  Properties in the  **AccessObjectProperties** collection are not stored and can be lost when when the object they are associated with is checked in or out using the Source Code Control add-in.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [AccessObjectProperty Object Members](da6c2072-8cf1-7a98-c62a-d559eb3d381d.md)
