
# Comparison of Data Types

 **Last modified:** July 29, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013_

The Access database engine recognizes several overlapping sets of data types. In Access, there are four different contexts in which you may need to specify a data type — in table Design view, in the  **Query Parameters** dialog box, in Visual Basic, and in SQL view in a query.

The following table compares the five sets of data types that correspond to each context. The first column lists the  **Type** property settings available in table Design view and the five **FieldSize** property settings for the Number data type. The second column lists the corresponding query parameter data types available for designing parameter queries in the **Query Parameters** dialog box. The third column lists the corresponding Visual Basic data types. The fourth column lists ADO **Field** object data types. The fifth column lists the corresponding Jet database engine SQL data types defined by the Access database engine along with their valid synonyms.


|**Table fields**|**Query parameters**|**Visual Basic**|**ADO Data Type property constants**|**Access database engine SQL and synonyms**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Not supported_|Binary| _Not supported_| **adBinary**|BINARY (See Notes)
 (Synonym: VARBINARY)|
|Yes/No|Yes/No| **Boolean**| **adBoolean**|BOOLEAN
 (Synonyms: BIT, LOGICAL, LOGICAL1, YESNO)|
|Number
 ( **FieldSize** = Byte)|Byte| **Byte**| **adUnsignedTinyInt**|BYTE
 (Synonym: INTEGER1)|
|AutoNumber
 ( **FieldSize**= Long Integer)|Long Integer| **Long**| **adInteger**|COUNTER
 (Synonym: AUTOINCREMENT)|
|Currency|Currency| **Currency**| **adCurrency**|CURRENCY
 (Synonym: MONEY)|
|Date/Time|Date/Time| **Date**| **adDate**|DATETIME
 (Synonyms: DATE, TIME, TIMESTAMP)|
|Number
 ( **FieldSize** =
 Double)|Double| **Double**| **adDouble**|DOUBLE
 (Synonyms: FLOAT, FLOAT8, IEEEDOUBLE, NUMBER, NUMERIC)|
|AutoNumber /GUID ( **FieldSize** =
 Replication ID)|Replication ID| _Not supported_| **adGUID**|GUID|
|Number
 ( **FieldSize** =
 Long Integer)|Long Integer| **Long**| **adInteger**|LONG (See Notes)
 (Synonyms: INT, INTEGER, INTEGER4)|
|OLE Object|OLE Object| **String**| **adLongVarBinary**|LONGBINARY
 (Synonyms: GENERAL, OLEOBJECT)|
|Memo|Memo| **String**| **adLongVarWChar**|LONGTEXT
 (Synonyms: LONGCHAR, MEMO, NOTE)|
|Number
 ( **FieldSize** =
 Single)|Single| **Single**| **adSingle**|SINGLE
 (Synonyms: FLOAT4, IEEESINGLE, REAL)|
|Number
 ( **FieldSize** =
 Integer)|Integer| **Integer**| **adSmallInt**|SHORT (See Notes)
 (Synonyms: INTEGER2, SMALLINT)|
|Text|Text| **String**| **adVarWChar**|TEXT
 (Synonyms: ALPHANUMERIC, CHAR, CHARACTER, STRING, VARCHAR)|
|Hyperlink|Memo| **String**| **adLongVarWChar**|LONGTEXT
 (Synonyms: LONGCHAR, MEMO, NOTE)|
| _Not supported_|Value| **Variant**| **adVariant**|VALUE (See Notes)|

 **Note**  

