
# WillChangeRecord and RecordChangeComplete Events (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



The  **WillChangeRecord** event is called before one or more records (rows) in the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) change. The **RecordChangeComplete** event is called after one or more records change.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **WillChangeRecord** _adReason_, _cRecords_, _adStatus_, _pRecordset_

 **RecordChangeComplete** _adReason_, _cRecords_, _pError_, _adStatus_, _pRecordset_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _adReason_
    
- An [EventReasonEnum](0639928e-d0ef-3db3-887e-f3da03913bc7.md) value that specifies the reason for this event. Its value can be **adRsnAddNew**, **adRsnDelete**, **adRsnUpdate**, **adRsnUndoUpdate**, **adRsnUndoAddNew**, **adRsnUndoDelete**, or **adRsnFirstChange**.
    
-  _cRecords_
    
- A  **Long** value that indicates the number of records changing (affected).
    
-  _pError_
    
- An [Error](97e478bf-8b25-03a8-9358-abba5069cba3.md) object. It describes the error that occurred if the value of _adStatus_ is **adStatusErrorsOccurred**; otherwise it is not set.
    
-  _adStatus_
    
- [EventStatusEnum](ae1711bc-2af5-04fd-7d8c-222d8afc9d3d.md)
    
    When  **WillChangeRecord** is called, this parameter is set to **adStatusOK** if the operation that caused the event was successful. It is set to **adStatusCantDeny** if this event cannot request cancellation of the pending operation.
    
    When  **RecordChangeComplete** is called, this parameter is set to **adStatusOK** if the operation that caused the event was successful, or to **adStatusErrorsOccurred** if the operation failed.
    
    Before  **WillChangeRecord** returns, set this parameter to **adStatusCancel** to request cancellation of the operation that caused this event or set this parameter to adStatusUnwantedEvent to prevent subsequent notications.
    
    Before  **RecordChangeComplete** returns, set this parameter to **adStatusUnwantedEvent** to prevent subsequent notifications.
    
-  _pRecordset_
    
- A  **Recordset** object. The **Recordset** for which this event occurred.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

A  **WillChangeRecord** or **RecordChangeComplete** event may occur for the first changed field in a row due to the following **Recordset** operations:[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md), [Delete](62c39b4d-223e-7b48-6780-6cd272e3114e.md), [CancelUpdate](2bd4d168-ba52-7786-5046-44febeda88e1.md), [AddNew](bae09be0-5707-4f38-9c74-0acd0f29dbac.md), [UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md), and [CancelBatch](be7bf073-ed0b-e24c-7ec0-b7379236782a.md). The value of the  **Recordset**[CursorType](f42ded8f-9f92-ef03-a198-ffb892324611.md) determines which operations cause the events to occur.

During the  **WillChangeRecord** event, the **Recordset**[Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property is set to **adFilterAffectedRecords**. You cannot change this property while processing the event.

You must set the adStatus parameter to adStatusUnwantedEvent for each possible adReason value in order to completely stop event noticiation for any event that includes an adReason parameter.

