
# Hyperlink.SubAddress Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **SubAddress** property to specify or determine a location within the target document specified by the ** [Address](68b9cf8f-a647-798d-36ae-d451b7e6ae5a.md)**property. Read/write  **String**. .


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **SubAddress**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Hyperlink** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **SubAddress** property can be an object within a Microsoft Access database, a bookmark within a Microsoft Word document, a named range within a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, a slide within a Microsoft PowerPoint presentation, or a location within an HTML document.

The  **SubAddress** property represents the **HyperlinkSubAddress**property of a named location within the target document specified by the  **HyperlinkAddress**property

When you move the cursor over a command button, image control, or label control whose  **HyperlinkSubAddress** property is set, the cursor changes to an upward-pointing hand. Clicking the control displays the object or Web page specified by the link.

For more information about hyperlink addresses and their format, see the  **HyperlinkAddress** and **HyperlinkSubAddress** property topics.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example turns a label named "Label20" on the "Suppliers" form into an active hyperlink. When the user click the hyperlink, Access opens the "Mailing List" form in the "Postal Operations" database.


```
With Forms("Suppliers").Controls("Label20").Hyperlink 
 .Address = "PostalOperations.mdb" 
 .SubAddress = "Form Mailing List" 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Hyperlink Object](2ece7c11-ed02-8eec-9ecc-4e1aeeaa6e87.md)
#### Other resources


 [Hyperlink Object Members](59452547-c53a-69b7-fd78-2857410c3460.md)
