
# ComboBox.ListRows Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **ListRows** property to set the maximum number of rows to display in the list box portion of a combo box. Read/write **Integer**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ListRows**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ComboBox** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **ListRows** property holds an integer that indicates the maximum number of rows to display. The default setting is 16. The setting for the **ListRows** property must be from 1 to 255.


 **Note**  Microsoft Access sets the  **ListRows** property automatically when you select Lookup Wizard as the data type for a field in table Design view.

You can set the default for this property by using a combo box's default control style or the  **DefaultControl**property in Visual Basic.

If the actual number of rows exceeds the number specified by the  **ListRows** property setting, a vertical scroll bar appears in the list box portion of the combo box.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **ListCount** property to find the number of rows in the list box portion of the CustomerList combo box on a Customers form. It then sets the **ListRows** property to display a specified number of rows in the list.


```
Public Sub SizeCustomerList() 
 
 Dim ListControl As Control 
 
 Set ListControl = Forms!Customers!CustomerList 
 With ListControl 
 If .ListCount < 8 Then 
 .ListRows = .ListCount 
 Else 
 .ListRows = 8 
 End If 
 End With 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ComboBox Object](1cf508d5-023e-eb38-3991-71e82b2a4e7e.md)
#### Other resources


 [ComboBox Object Members](d0d83ca3-3698-295e-5335-7d0816557d6b.md)
