
# AbsolutePage Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates on which page the current record resides.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **Long** value from 1 to the number of pages in the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object ([PageCount](9cd8bf5c-b1e7-a453-4629-9cba7e408f53.md) ), or returns one of the[PositionEnum](2a6f294b-74f2-b951-e32a-79ff5e782204.md) values.


## Remarks

This property can be used to identify the page number on which the current record is located. It uses the [PageSize](da56edd8-8947-aeff-2ef5-a8535c66575b.md) property to logically divide the total rowset count of the **Recordset** object into a series of pages, each of which has the number of records equal to **PageSize** (except for the last page, which may have fewer records). The provider must support the appropriate functionality for this property to be available.

When getting or setting the  **AbsolutePage** property, ADO uses the[AbsolutePosition](500be001-9fa1-177b-f19d-acf003a0cdc2.md) property and the[PageSize](da56edd8-8947-aeff-2ef5-a8535c66575b.md) property together as follows:


- To get the  **AbsolutePage**, ADO first retrieves the **AbsolutePosition**, and then divides it by the **PageSize**.
    
- To set the  **AbsolutePage**, ADO moves the **AbsolutePosition** as follows: it multiplies the **PageSize** by the new **AbsolutePage** value and then adds 1 to the value. As a result, the current position in the **Recordset** after successfully setting **AbsolutePage** is, the first record in that page.
    
Like the  **AbsolutePosition** property, **AbsolutePage** is 1-based and equals 1 when the current record is the first record in the **Recordset**. Set this property to move to the first record of a particular page. Obtain the total number of pages from the **PageCount** property.

