
# CommandButton.Bevel Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Gets or sets the bevel effect applied to the specified object. Read/write  **Long**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Bevel**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **CommandButton** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **Bevel** property contains a numeric expression that represents the bevel effect applied to the specified object. The default value of the **Bevel** property is 0, which does not apply a bevel effect.

The Bevel effects include values that are listed in the following table.



|**Value**|**Effect**|
|:-----|:-----|
|0|None|
|1|Circle|
|2|Relaxed Inset|
|3|Cross|
|4|Cool Slant|
|5|Angle|
|6|Soft Round|
|7|Convex|
|8|Slope|
|9|Divot|
|10|Riblet|
|11|Hard Edge|
|12|Art Deco|
To see the available bevel effects and apply a bevel through the user interface, first open the form or report in  **Layout** view or **Design** view by right-clicking the form or report in the Navigation Pane, and then clicking the view you want. Then, click the object to which you want to apply a bevel effect. Next, on the **Format** tab, in the **Control Formatting** group, click **Shape Effects**, then click  **Bevel** and choose a bevel effect. Notice that the bevel effects are indexed from left to right, and then top to bottom. So the first item, under **No Bevel**, has the value 0. Then, under Bevel, the first row contains bevel effects with values from 1 to 4. The second row from 5 to 8, and the third row from 9 to 12.

This property is not surfaced in the property sheet.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following code example sets the bevel effect to Cross.


```
Public Const BevelEffectNone = 0 
Public Const BevelEffectCircle = 1 
Public Const BevelEffectRelaxedInset = 2 
Public Const BevelEffectCross = 3 
Public Const BevelEffectCoolSlant = 4 
Public Const BevelEffectAngle = 5 
Public Const BevelEffectSoftRound = 6 
Public Const BevelEffectConvex = 7 
Public Const BevelEffectSlope = 8 
Public Const BevelEffectDivot = 9 
Public Const BevelEffectRiblet = 10 
Public Const BevelEffectHardEdge = 11 
Public Const BevelEffectArtDeco = 12 
Me.ctl.Bevel = BevelEffectCross
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [CommandButton Object](25e7c0b7-03c1-dffe-8f52-4ec59739f6b8.md)
#### Other resources


 [CommandButton Object Members](9e1c10e6-0d03-78fd-ac9d-3f086ce1e0f5.md)
