
# Border Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents the border of an object.

## Remarks

Most bordered objects (all except for the  ** [Range](b8207778-0dcc-4570-1234-f130532cc8cd.md)** and ** [Style](3c1e9184-0075-5f46-9a1a-0b61d874d1f8.md)** objects) have a border that's treated as a single entity, regardless of how many sides it has. The entire border must be returned as a unit. Use the ** [Border](5b253b40-e9c1-031d-305c-bfe4a600427c.md)** property, such as from a ** [TrendLine](5c04b065-57f4-a059-7c22-50612bd727ea.md)** object, to return the **Border** object for this kind of object.


## Example

 The following example changes the type and line style of a trend line on the active chart.


```
With ActiveChart.SeriesCollection(1).Trendlines(1) 
 .Type = xlLinear 
 .Border.LineStyle = xlDash 
End With
```

 **Range** and **Style** objects have four discrete borders — left, right, top, and bottom — which can be returned individually or as a group. Use the **Borders** property to return the **Borders** collection, which contains all four borders and treats the borders as a unit. The following example adds a double border to cell A1 on worksheet one.




```
Worksheets(1).Range("A1").Borders.LineStyle = xlDouble
```

Use  **Borders**( _index_), where  _index_ identifies the border, to return a single **Border** object. The following example sets the color of the bottom border of cells A1:G1.




```
Worksheets("Sheet1").Range("A1:G1"). _ 
 Borders(xlEdgeBottom).Color = RGB(255, 0, 0)
```

 _Index_ can be one of the following ** [XlBordersIndex](91ab77e7-c54f-266d-fc61-7ce0bed1bd8c.md)** constants: **xlDiagonalDown**,  **xlDiagonalUp**,  **xlEdgeBottom**,  **xlEdgeLeft**,  **xlEdgeRight**,  **xlEdgeTop**,  **xlInsideHorizontal**, or  **xlInsideVertical**.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [Border Object Members](9894a092-7e82-4108-3463-c6d7b542659c.md)
