
# CancelBatch Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Cancels a pending batch update.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _recordset_. **CancelBatch** _ AffectRecords_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _AffectRecords_
    
- Optional. An [AffectEnum](15393398-d7eb-a685-1bfa-d6712d8e5015.md) value that indicates how many records the **CancelBatch** method will affect.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

Use the  **CancelBatch** method to cancel any pending updates in a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) in batch update mode. If the **Recordset** is in immediate update mode, calling **CancelBatch** without **adAffectCurrent** generates an error.

If you are editing the current record or are adding a new record when you call  **CancelBatch**, ADO first calls the[CancelUpdate](2bd4d168-ba52-7786-5046-44febeda88e1.md) method to cancel any cached changes. After that, all pending changes in the **Recordset** are canceled.

It's possible that the current record will be indeterminable after a  **CancelBatch** call, especially if you were in the process of adding a new record. For this reason, it is prudent to set the current record position to a known location in the **Recordset** after the **CancelBatch** call. For example, call the[MoveFirst](d04ce41c-77c9-df42-115a-65c50a38518a.md) method.

If the attempt to cancel the pending updates fails because of a conflict with the underlying data (for example, a record has been deleted by another user), the provider returns warnings to the [Errors](76c234b8-7fec-11c5-275e-864d5d880ee7.md) collection but does not halt program execution. A run-time error occurs only if there are conflicts on all the requested records. Use the[Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property ( **adFilterAffectedRecords** ) and the[Status](bf3ccb36-c985-5fae-4f76-c48a0e20e6f7.md) property to locate records with conflicts.

