
# Connection Object (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Represents an open connection to a data source.

## Remarks

A  **Connection** object represents a unique session with a data source. In the case of a client/server database system, it may be equivalent to an actual network connection to the server. Depending on the functionality supported by the provider, some collections, methods, or properties of a **Connection** object may not be available.

With the collections, methods, and properties of a  **Connection** object, you can do the following:


- Configure the connection before opening it with the [ConnectionString](c67a7daf-258f-d99d-6475-a4aa98d1e99d.md), [ConnectionTimeout](efc39fd8-afce-5ac0-2fff-cbb55c1a444d.md), and [Mode](62086f4f-8624-16c4-dae1-a17475d1864d.md) properties. **ConnectionString** is the default property of the **Connection** object.
    
- Set the [CursorLocation](8a048bd4-ae25-a555-1c07-14364b7e6560.md) property to client to invoke the[Microsoft Cursor Service for OLE DB](6818fc05-9c9f-9b67-07d2-e622c93133c2.md), which supports batch updates.
    
- Set the default database for the connection with the [DefaultDatabase](a35c5631-f9d9-e51f-950b-e52169830d94.md) property.
    
- Set the level of isolation for the transactions opened on the connection with the [IsolationLevel](19461be5-c94b-4b61-ce08-7abdf702c3dc.md) property.
    
- Specify an OLE DB provider with the [Provider](1b795f51-93d7-431c-b1fe-0db95f69a56a.md) property.
    
- Establish, and later break, the physical connection to the data source with the [Open](1adaa17d-dfe1-22e0-3415-720516d138f8.md) and[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md) methods.
    
- Execute a command on the connection with the [Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/af190bd9-7167-df59-29ca-a9a86c4957fd%28Office.15%29.aspx) method and configure the execution with the[CommandTimeout](a0b6209c-9feb-08ae-002a-15d1d20734a8.md) property.
    
     **Note**  To execute a query without using a Command object, pass a query string to the  **Execute** method of a **Connection** object. However, a[Command](64f4ef03-f858-c004-b891-0c96d13a5e6e.md) object is required when you want to persist the command text and re-execute it, or use query parameters.
- Manage transactions on the open connection, including nested transactions if the provider supports them, with the [BeginTrans](9a0415f0-9424-8d1c-4779-92e932292d46.md), [CommitTrans](9a0415f0-9424-8d1c-4779-92e932292d46.md), and [RollbackTrans](9a0415f0-9424-8d1c-4779-92e932292d46.md) methods and the[Attributes](4cc1f036-606e-7d4b-d270-af374e9d99fa.md) property.
    
- Examine errors returned from the data source with the [Errors](76c234b8-7fec-11c5-275e-864d5d880ee7.md) collection.
    
- Read the version from the ADO implementation used with the [Version](61466895-0a6c-533c-bd93-0ab6af654f24.md) property.
    
- Obtain schema information about your database with the [OpenSchema](57771163-a14e-207a-2942-849acb79a9a1.md) method.
    
You can create  **Connection** objects independently of any other previously defined object.

You can execute commands or stored procedures as if they were native methods on the  **Connection** object, as illustrated below.

 **Execute a command as a native method of a Connection object**

To execute a command, give the command a name using the  **Command** object[Name](4b19bd08-ac3c-86f0-471d-06a37a0d4f89.md) property. Set the **Command** object's **ActiveConnection** property to the connection. Then issue a statement where the command name is used as if it were a method on the **Connection** object, followed by any parameters, then followed by a **Recordset** object if any rows are returned. Set the **Recordset** properties to customize the resulting **Recordset**. For example:




```vb
Dim cnn As New ADODB.Connection
Dim cmd As New ADODB.Command
Dim rst As New ADODB.Recordset
...
cnn.Open "..."
cmd.Name = "yourCommandName"
cmd.ActiveConnection = cnn
...
'Your command name, any parameters, and an optional Recordset.
cnn.yourCommandName "parameter", rst
```

 **Execute a stored procedure as a native method of a Connection object**

To execute a stored procedure, issue a statement where the stored procedure name is used as if it were a method on the  **Connection** object, followed by any parameters. ADO will make a "best guess" of parameter types. For example:




```vb
Dim cnn As New ADODB.Connection
...
'Your stored procedure name and any parameters.
cnn.sp_yourStoredProcedureName "parameter"

```

