
# Range.DisplayFormat Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns a  ** [DisplayFormat](c70b5d7f-adf1-e539-a32d-12c920af7c7e.md)** object that represents the display settings for the specified range. Read-only

## Syntax

 _expression_. **DisplayFormat**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Range](b8207778-0dcc-4570-1234-f130532cc8cd.md)** object.


### Return Value

DisplayFormat


## Remarks

Note that the  **DisplayFormat** property does not work in user defined functions. For example, in a worksheet function that returns the interior color of a cell, you use a line similar to: `Range(n).DisplayFormat.Interior.ColorIndex`. When the worksheet function executes, it returns a  **#VALUE!** error.

In another example, you cannot use the  **DisplayFormat** property in a worksheet function to return settings for a particular range. **DisplayFormat** will work in a function called from Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), however. For instance, in the following function:




```
Function getColorIndex()
   getColorIndex = ActiveCell.DisplayFormat.Interior.ColorIndex
End Function
```

Calling the function from a worksheet as follows  **=getColorIndex()** returns the **#VALUE!** error.

However, when the function is called from the Immediate pane in the Visual Basic Editor, it returns the color index for the active cell. To work around this issue, remove  **DisplayFormat** from the code. The following function will work either from a worksheet or from VBA:




```
Function getColorIndex()
   getColorIndex = ActiveCell.Interior.ColorIndex
End Function
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Range Object](b8207778-0dcc-4570-1234-f130532cc8cd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Range Object Members](4336bf81-1e63-7e44-1792-baf366a027a7.md)
