
# ConnectionString Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the information used to establish a connection to a data source.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **String** value.


## Remarks

Use the  **ConnectionString** property to specify a data source by passing a detailed connection string containing a series of _argument_ _= value_ statements separated by semicolons.

ADO supports five arguments for the  **ConnectionString** property; any other arguments pass directly to the provider without any processing by ADO. The arguments ADO supports are as follows.



|**Argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| _Provider=_|Specifies the name of a provider to use for the connection.|
| _File Name=_|Specifies the name of a provider-specific file (for example, a persisted data source object) containing preset connection information.|
| _Remote Provider=_|Specifies the name of a provider to use when opening a client-side connection. (Remote Data Service only.)|
| _Remote Server=_|Specifies the path name of the server to use when opening a client-side connection. (Remote Data Service only.)|
| _URL=_|Specifies the connection string as an absolute URL identifying a resource, such as a file or directory.|
After you set the  **ConnectionString** property and open the[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object, the provider may alter the contents of the property, for example, by mapping the ADO-defined argument names to their provider equivalents.

The  **ConnectionString** property automatically inherits the value used for the _ConnectionString_ argument of the[Open](1adaa17d-dfe1-22e0-3415-720516d138f8.md) method, so you can override the current **ConnectionString** property during the **Open** method call.

Because the  _File Name_ argument causes ADO to load the associated provider, you cannot pass both the _Provider_ and _File Name_ arguments.

The  **ConnectionString** property is read/write when the connection is closed and read-only when it is open.

Duplicates of an argument in the  **ConnectionString** property are ignored. The last instance of any argument is used.

 **Remote Data Service Usage** When used on a client-side **Connection** object, the **ConnectionString** property can include only the _Remote Provider_ and _Remote Server_ parameters.

