
# Clone Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Return Value](#sectionSection2)
[Parameters](#sectionSection3)
[Remarks](#sectionSection4)



Creates a duplicate [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object from an existing **Recordset** object. Optionally, specifies that the clone be read-only.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **Set** _rstDuplicate_ = _rstOriginal_. **Clone** ( _LockType_ )


## Return Value
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Returns a  **Recordset** object reference.


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  _rstDuplicate_
    
- An object variable that identifies the duplicate  **Recordset** object to be created.
    
-  _rstOriginal_
    
- An object variable that identifies the  **Recordset** object to be duplicated.
    
-  _LockType_
    
- Optional. A [LockTypeEnum](966b4952-5591-4a99-82d5-99cb9ae3fc72.md) value that specifies either the lock type of the original **Recordset**, or a read-only **Recordset**. Valid values are **adLockUnspecified** or **adLockReadOnly**.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>

Use the  **Clone** method to create multiple, duplicate **Recordset** objects, particularly if you want to maintain more than one current record in a given set of records. Using the **Clone** method is more efficient than creating and opening a new **Recordset** object with the same definition as the original.

The [Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property of the original **Recordset**, if any, will not be applied to the clone. Set the **Filter** property of the new **Recordset** in order to filter the results. The simplest way to copy any existing **Filter** value is to assign it directly, like this:

The current record of a newly created clone is set to the first record.

Changes you make to one  **Recordset** object are visible in all of its clones regardless of cursor type. However, after you execute[Requery](1062d907-979f-020a-b2ed-94e11c0e7d08.md) on the original **Recordset**, the clones will no longer be synchronized to the original.

Closing the original  **Recordset** does not close its copies, nor does closing a copy close the original or any of the other copies.

You can only clone a  **Recordset** object that supports bookmarks. Bookmark values are interchangeable; that is, a bookmark reference from one **Recordset** object refers to the same record in any of its clones.

Some  **Recordset** events that are triggered will also fire in all **Recordset** clones. However, because the current record can differ between cloned **Recordsets**, the events may not be valid for the clone.

For example, if you change a value of a field, a [WillChangeField](bc4455a6-2925-33dc-d04f-8ea570e5e370.md) event will occur in the changed **Recordset** and in all clones. The _Fields_ parameter of the **WillChangeField** event of a cloned **Recordset** (where the change was not made) will simply refer to the fields of the current record of the clone, which may be a different record than the current record of the original **Recordset** where the change occurred.

The following table provided a full listing of all  **Recordset** events and indicates whether they are valid and triggered for any recordset clones generated using the **Clone** method.



|**Event**|**Triggered in clones?**|
|:-----|:-----|
|[EndOfRecordset](8995b851-dff6-2525-1d62-a2cfb4f95393.md)|No|
|[FetchComplete](4863d5b5-7d77-bdef-c511-f85c9e6dec9d.md)|No|
|[FetchProgress](09145d9a-ea5e-b41c-6c54-33ec83e642a9.md)|No|
|[FieldChangeComplete](bc4455a6-2925-33dc-d04f-8ea570e5e370.md)|Yes|
|[MoveComplete](fe7eb823-b388-6b3d-1ae9-056018032ef5.md)|No|
|[RecordChangeComplete](b21229b2-74e6-0798-95bf-0252f041831c.md)|Yes|
|[RecordsetChangeComplete](2cec4cf9-a4e9-c386-5202-04e86f4cf8ad.md)|No|
|[WillChangeField](bc4455a6-2925-33dc-d04f-8ea570e5e370.md)|Yes|
|[WillChangeRecord](b21229b2-74e6-0798-95bf-0252f041831c.md)|Yes|
|[WillChangeRecordset](2cec4cf9-a4e9-c386-5202-04e86f4cf8ad.md)|No|
|[WillMove](fe7eb823-b388-6b3d-1ae9-056018032ef5.md)|No|
