
# Form.Repaint Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


The  **Repaint** method completes any pending screen updates for a specified form. When performed on a form, the **Repaint** method also completes any pending recalculations of the form's controls.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Repaint**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Form** object.


### Return Value

Nothing


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Microsoft Access sometimes waits to complete pending screen updates until it finishes other tasks. With the  **Repaint** method, you can force immediate repainting of the controls on the specified form. You can use the **Repaint** method:


- When you change values in a number of fields. Unless you force a repaint, Microsoft Access might not display the changes immediately, especially if other fields, such as those in an expression in a calculated control, depend on values in the changed fields.
    
- When you want to make sure that a form displays data in all of its fields. For example, fields containing OLE objects often don't display their data immediately after you open a form.
    
This method doesn't cause a requery of the database, nor does it show new or changed records in the form's underlying record source. You can use the  ** [Requery](26d8d784-9348-6301-9bef-569d15668a0e.md)** method to requery the source of data for the form or one of its controls.


 **Note**  


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **Repaint** method to repaint a form when the form receives the focus:


```
Private Sub Form_Activate() 
    Me.Repaint 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Form Object](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)
#### Other resources


 [Form Object Members](e1976b58-28ca-8f76-cdf3-6732cb06ce6c.md)
