
# ActiveConnection Property (ADO MD)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates to which ADO [Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object the current cellset or catalog currently belongs.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **Variant** that contains a string defining a connection or **Connection** object. The default is empty.


## Remarks

You can set this property to a valid ADO  **Connection** object or to a valid connection string. When this property is set to a connection string, the provider creates a new **Connection** object using this definition and opens the connection.

If you use the  **ActiveConnection** argument of the[Open](12395ff6-fe07-325a-2b69-007aa0b11ee6.md) method to open a[Cellset](28d4b3b9-f907-9ec0-00e1-9666c887cdf0.md) object, the **ActiveConnection** property will inherit the value of the argument.

Setting the  **ActiveConnection** property of a[Catalog](708c4082-3589-7f3b-5ea3-f3705f3d3ff1.md) object to **Nothing** releases the associated data, including data in the[CubeDefs](31adca99-7c4f-7393-4bab-bcb38bcfc2ac.md) collection and any related[Dimension](12f43cfc-c74e-a2e8-7f6e-75fc68472c4b.md), [Hierarchy](26e4e690-59ad-fb87-66b0-f3310df42d0c.md), [Level](ddbcabce-8777-1068-98a3-be209084f497.md), and [Member](d80c024a-07dc-7a35-f8f2-b4d5b19d89e4.md) objects. Closing a **Connection** object that was used to open a **Catalog** has the same effect as setting the **ActiveConnection** property to **Nothing**.

Changing the default database of the connection referenced by the  **ActiveConnection** property of a **Catalog** object invalidates the contents of the **Catalog**.

An error will occur if you attempt to change the  **ActiveConnection** property for an open **Cellset** object.


 **Note**  In Visual Basic, remember to use the  **Set** keyword when setting the **ActiveConnection** property to a **Connection** object. If you omit the **Set** keyword, you will actually be setting the **ActiveConnection** property equal to the **Connection** object's default property, **ConnectionString**. The code will work; however, you will create an additional connection to the data source, which may have negative performance implications.

When using the MSOLAP data provider, set the data source in a connection string to a server name and set the initial catalog to the name of a catalog from the data source. To connect to a cube file that is disconnected from a server, set the location to the full path to the .CUB file. In either case, set the provider to the provider name. For example, the following string connects to a catalog named Bobs Video Store on a server named Servername with the MSOLAP Provider:




```

"Data Source=Servername;Initial Catalog=Bobs Video Store;Provider=msolap"
```

The following string connects to a local cube file at the location C:\MSDASDK\samples\oledb\olap\data\bobsvid.cub:




```
"Location=C:\MSDASDK\samples\oledb\olap\data\bobsvid.cub;Provider=msolap"


```

