
# PivotCache.MakeConnection Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection3)


Establishes a connection for the specified PivotTable cache.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MakeConnection**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **PivotCache** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **MakeConnection** method can be used after the cache drops a connection and the user wants to reestablish the connection.

Various objects and methods might return a run-time error if the cache is not connected. Use of this method assures a connection before executing other objects or methods.

This method will result in a run-time error if the  **MaintainConnection** property of the specified PivotTable cache has been set to **False**, the  **SourceType** property of the specified PivotTable cache has not been set to xlExternal, or if the connection is not to an OLE DB data source.


 **Note**  Microsoft Excel might drop a connection temporarily in the course of a session (unknown to the VBA programmer), so this method proves useful.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The following example determines if the cache is connected to its source and makes a connection to the source if necessary. This example assumes that a PivotTable cache exists on the active worksheet.


```
Sub UseMakeConnection() 
 
    Dim pvtCache As PivotCache 
 
    Set pvtCache = Application.ActiveWorkbook.PivotCaches.Item(1) 
 
    ' Handle run-time error if external source is not an OLE DB data source. 
    On Error GoTo Not_OLEDB 
 
    ' Check connection setting and make connection if necessary. 
    If pvtCache.IsConnected = True Then 
        MsgBox "The MakeConnection method is not needed." 
    Else 
        pvtCache.MakeConnection 
        MsgBox "A connection has been made." 
    End If 
    Exit Sub 
 
Not_OLEDB: 
    MsgBox "The data source is not an OLE DB data source" 
 
End Sub 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [PivotCache Object](c3d84ef1-f9e6-b1bc-cbf0-3ba8dfe17439.md)
#### Other resources


 [PivotCache Object Members](113f1109-e1c9-2c6e-0581-9fba82f278dc.md)
