
# Report.Open Event (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)
 [About the Contributors](#AboutContributors)


The  **Open** occurs before a report is previewed or printed.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Open**( **_Cancel_**, )

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Report** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Cancel|Required| **Integer**|

### Return Value

nothing


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

For example, an  **Open** macro or event procedure can open a custom dialog box in which the user enters the criteria to filter the set of records to display on a form or the date range to include for a report.

When you open a report based on an underlying query, Microsoft Access runs the  **Open** macro or event procedure before it runs the underlying query for the report. This enables the user to specify criteria for the report before it opens — for example, in a custom dialog box you display when the **Open** event occurs.

If your application can have more than one form loaded at a time, use the  **Activate** and **Deactivate** events instead of the **Open** event to display and hide custom toolbars when the focus moves to a different form.

When the  **Close** event occurs, you can open another window or request the user's name to make a log entry indicating who used the form or report.

If you're trying to decide whether to use the  **Open** or **Load** event for your macro or event procedure, one significant difference is that the **Open** event can be canceled, but the **Load** event can't. For example, if you're dynamically building a record source for a form in an event procedure for the form's **Open** event, you can cancel opening the form if there are no records to display. Similarly, the **Unload** event can be canceled, but the **Close** event can't.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example shows how to use a Structured Query Language (SQL) statement to establish the data source of a report as it is opened.

 **Sample code provided by:** The [Microsoft Access 2010 Programmer's Reference](http://www.wrox.com/WileyCDA/WroxTitle/Access-2010-Programmer-s-Reference.productCd-0470591668.mdl)




```
Private Sub Report_Open(Cancel As Integer)

    On Error GoTo Error_Handler

    Me.Caption = "My Application"

    DoCmd.OpenForm FormName:="frmReportSelector_MemberList", _
    Windowmode:=acDialog

    'Cancel the report if "cancel" was selected on the dialog form.

    If Forms!frmReportSelector_MemberList!txtContinue = "no" Then
        Cancel = True
        GoTo Exit_Procedure
    End If
    Me.RecordSource = ReplaceWhereClause(Me.RecordSource, _
      Forms!frmReportSelector_MemberList!txtWhereClause)

Exit_Procedure:
    Exit Sub

Error_Handler:
    MsgBox Err.Number &amp; ": " &amp; Err.Description
    Resume Exit_Procedure
    Resume

End Sub
```


## About the Contributors
<a name="AboutContributors"> </a>

Wrox Press is driven by the Programmer to Programmer philosophy. Wrox books are written by programmers for programmers, and the Wrox brand means authoritative solutions to real-world programming problems. 


## See also
<a name="AboutContributors"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Report Object](6f77c1b4-a9ce-7caa-204c-fe0755c6f9df.md)
#### Other resources


 [Report Object Members](73370a33-1ca0-da4d-9e36-88011bc2b93e.md)
