
# Dialogs Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Remarks](#sectionSection0)
 [Example](#sectionSection1)
 [About the Contributor](#AboutContributor)


A collection of all the  ** [Dialog](adabcd3b-fc48-d314-3ae5-f1b2ba148383.md)** objects in Microsoft Excel.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 Each **Dialog** object represents a built-in dialog box. You cannot create a new built-in dialog box or add one to the collection. The only useful thing you can do with a **Dialog** object is use it with the ** [Show](7c69ecc2-fdd5-c91b-1c66-e3099bd69cb7.md)** method to display the dialog corresponding dialog box.

The Microsoft Excel Visual Basic object library includes built-in constants for many of the built-in dialog boxes. Each constant is formed from the prefix "xlDialog" followed by the name of the dialog box. For example, the  **Apply Names** dialog box constant is **xlDialogApplyNames**, and the  **Find File** dialog box constant is **xlDialogFindFile**. These constants are members of the  ** [XlBuiltinDialog](18f10073-3793-f7e8-4361-72011e60cd4c.md)** enumerated type.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use the  [Dialogs](0d04aa87-9872-23e5-78e3-c9e3da2c8eb5.md) property to return the **Dialogs** collection. The following code example displays the number of available built-in Microsoft Excel dialog boxes.


```
MsgBox Application.Dialogs.Count
```

Use  **Dialogs**( _index_), where  _index_ is a built-in constant identifying the dialog box, to return a single **Dialog** object. The following example runs the built-in **File Open** dialog box.




```
dlgAnswer = Application.Dialogs(xlDialogOpen).Show
```



 **Sample code provided by:** Bill Jelen, [MrExcel.com](http://www.mrexcel.com/)

The following code example opens an e-mail message in Microsoft Outlook with the current workbook attached.




```
Sub SendIt() 
    Application.Dialogs(xlDialogSendMail).Show arg1:="ask@mrexcel.com", arg2:="This goes in the subject line" 
End Sub 

```


## About the Contributor
<a name="AboutContributor"> </a>

MVP Bill Jelen is the author of more than two dozen books about Microsoft Excel. He is a regular guest on TechTV with Leo Laporte and is the host of MrExcel.com, which includes more than 300,000 questions and answers about Excel. 


## See also
<a name="AboutContributor"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [Dialogs Object Members](15d5bbd8-798a-38b9-2071-b89b68437f9f.md)
