
# Access Data Access How Do I...

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Access 2013_

 **In this article**
 [Structured Query Language (SQL)](#sectionSection0)
 [Data Access Objects (DAO)](#sectionSection1)
 [ActiveX Data Objects (ADO)](#sectionSection2)
 [XML](#sectionSection3)


This page links to help on widely used data-access tasks. To view other categories of popular tasks covered in Help, see  [How Do I… in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md).

## Structured Query Language (SQL)
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>


-  [How to: Build SQL Statements That Include Variables and Controls](e902199f-ed00-e885-3671-0705aa2b058a.md)
    
      - Describes how to to construct an SQL statement that includes variables and control values in code.
    
-  [How to: Create and Delete Tables and Indexes Using Access SQL](44c9e6a7-ac29-7a88-e0c6-b7eaec1e95ea.md)
    
      - Describes how to use Access SQL to create and delete tables and indexes.
    
-  [How to: Define Relationships Between Tables Using Access SQL](24159c8a-c4ba-79a9-2490-007a82163f55.md)
    
      - Describes how to use Access SQL to define relationships.
    
-  [How to: Group Records in a Result Set Using Access SQL](217e1a5a-cfe2-0859-1e16-a3d27450008c.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the GORUP BY clause to group related records.
    
-  [How to: Insert, Update, and Delete Records From a Table Using Access SQL](0d71f4f1-efc1-127e-5edc-263a3a2a30fb.md)
    
      - Describes how to use Access SQL to add, update, and delete records from a table.
    
-  [How to: Modify a Table's Design Using Access SQL](c05687af-ed43-56dc-a65a-e9c328be0f5b.md)
    
      - Describes how to modify a table's design using Access SQL.
    
-  [How to: Perform Joins Using Access SQL](1a19bc56-afd3-3917-b503-44b77078483d.md)
    
      - Describes how to use Access SQL to perform joins.
    
-  [How to: Retrieve Records Using Access SQL](b613a24a-2fc4-ac18-501f-c44b5cc2a45d.md)
    
      - Describes how to use Access SQL to retrieve records.
    
-  [How to: Use Aggregate Functions to Work with Values in Access SQL](59ef6294-6840-d271-7711-bdbd78130db2.md)
    
      - Describes how to use aggregate functions in Access SQL.
    

## Data Access Objects (DAO)
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>


-  [How to: Add a Record to a DAO Recordset](b6366906-4b37-0d35-cfd5-d38e7717131c.md)
    
      - Describes how to add a new record to a table-type or dynaset-type Recordset.
    
-  [How to: Build SQL Statements That Include Variables and Controls](e902199f-ed00-e885-3671-0705aa2b058a.md)
    
      - Describes how to construct an SQL statement that includes variables and control values in code.
    
-  [How to: Change Tables Involved in a One-to-Many Relationship in a DAO Recordset](d859066f-dfb5-e3b5-0cc8-fed38c3adb26.md)
    
      - Describes how to freely change the values on the "one" side of a one-to-many relationship.
    
-  [How to: Count the Number of Records in a DAO Recordset](ea524046-4d04-b595-1a45-13b399745f44.md)
    
      - Describes how to count the umber of records in a  **Recordset** object.
    
-  [How to: Create a DAO Recordset From a Form](d4bbe327-217d-ba7e-3d9f-3c89af1dcbc9.md)
    
      - Describes how to create a  **Recordset** object based on an Access form.
    
-  [How to: Create a DAO Recordset From a Query](d84870d4-58e4-9d48-9951-72d928929002.md)
    
      - Describes how to create a  **Recordset** object based on a stored select query.
    
-  [How to: Create a DAO Recordset From a Table In the Current Database](b0507965-e6af-cda4-9d50-fbeb98b4ab89.md)
    
      - Describes how to create a  **Recordset** object for a table in the current database.
    
-  [How to: Create a User-Defined Property](49d2fede-2fb5-0b1b-42cd-6147756ea1ca.md)
    
      - Illustrates how to create and set the value of the new uer-defined property.
    
-  [How to: Delete a Record From a DAO Recordset](7407b757-4c00-2ea7-c93f-303c09afff26.md)
    
      - Describes how to delete a record from a DAO recordset.
    
-  [How to: Detect the Limits of a DAO Recordset](f4be9ea8-25af-1c5c-4cd7-43d57e5d4d8b.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the BOF and EOF properties to avoid run-time erros when moving through a recordset.
    
-  [How to: Extract Data from a Record in a DAO Recordset](cd0d8c73-c9a7-3565-514d-6b379ac2d690.md)
    
      - Describes several techniques for extracting data from a DAO Recordset.
    
-  [How to: Find a Record in a Dynaset-Type or Snapshot-Type DAO Recordset](f79f47e1-63a9-774d-4d07-32759ac30c8b.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the Find methods to locate records in a dynaset-type or snapshot-type recordset.
    
-  [How to: Find a Record in a Table-Type DAO Recordset](b17f14db-9b3e-7f12-9fc8-f56c6dcbad09.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **Seek** method to locate a record in a table-type recordset.
    
-  [How to: Find the Current Position in a DAO Recordset](1f08caa7-b671-b844-59a0-f924a5220cf4.md)
    
      - Describes how to find the current position in a recordset.
    
-  [How to: Make Bulk Changes to a DAO Recordset](b66c857a-42ed-15c9-e01d-99c451651f3b.md)
    
      - Describes how to efficiently make bulk updates to a recordset.
    
-  [How to: Manipulate Multivalued Fields With DAO](a3c02fcd-ad48-c3fb-afa1-aabb43fc5bbf.md)
    
      - Describes how to manipulate records in multivalued fields.
    
-  [How to: Mark a Position in a DAO Recordset](52e378ab-0e03-cc5f-b215-834efe0f2667.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **Bookmark** property to mark a record in a recordset.
    
-  [How to: Modify a Query from a DAO Recordset](b5679ca8-9bcd-2d28-15af-2640db727dd4.md)
    
      - Describes how to modify a query's parameters using Access SQL.
    
-  [How to: Modify an Existing Record in a DAO Recordset](e1fe83cc-db41-8c51-1809-e5ae059c0260.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **Edit** and **Update** methods to modify records.
    
-  [How to: Move Through a DAO Recordset](7d788b60-c6e8-dea7-68fe-01b893fc3374.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **Move** methods to navigate a recordset.
    
-  [How to: Read From and Write To a Field in a DAO Recordset](4fe0c334-9c44-773c-7aed-182b042213a7.md)
    
      - Describes how to use the  **Value** property of a field to read or write data to a record.
    
-  [How to: Return a Random Record from a DAO Recordset](16d8998f-0aca-a5e6-dec4-2be93c41a595.md)
    
      - Describes how to return a random record from a recordset.
    
-  [How to: Set Properties of Data Access Objects in Visual Basic](5f8a285a-b868-1c45-2caa-ffa6d91055e8.md)
    
      - Describes how to set properties for DAO objects.
    
-  [How to: Sort Data in a DAO Recordset](900b0b00-34f5-dba6-5386-34360cee95a0.md)
    
      - Describes how to sort data in a recordset.
    
-  [How to: Synchronize a DAO Recordset's Record with a Form's Current Record](2960dd7d-4c60-4148-ef58-dd44f1042851.md)
    
      - Describes how to synchronize a recordset's record with the form's current record.
    
-  [How to: Track Design Changes to a Table-Type DAO Recordset](7d565770-37b6-5650-c998-9ff3b30d54cb.md)
    
      - Describes how to determine when a table was created or last updated.
    
-  [How to: Use Transactions in a DAO Recordset](7d565770-37b6-5650-c998-9ff3b30d54cb.md)
    
      - Describes how to use transactions in a DAO recordset.
    
-  [How to: Work With Attachments In DAO](e175a47a-4d97-b93b-c152-809314ac5ba0.md)
    
      - Describes how to load and save attachments in a recordset.
    

## ActiveX Data Objects (ADO)
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  [How to: Bind a Form to an ADO Recordset](de85b07c-aa2d-7cf6-e0da-70b682f1bdd0.md)
    
      - Describes how to set a form's  **Recordset** property to an open ADO **Recordset** object.
    
-  [How to: Build SQL Statements That Include Variables and Controls](e902199f-ed00-e885-3671-0705aa2b058a.md)
    
      - Describes how to construct an SQL statement that includes variables and control values in code.
    
-  [How to: Create an ADO Connection String](ac29e820-ffbf-a15b-e13d-c9190dfad6ab.md)
    
      - Describes the components of an ADO connection string.
    
-  [How to: Set Properties of ActiveX Data Objects in Visual Basic](7e746a40-6227-1481-f631-702c3cf42d0f.md)
    
      - Describes how to set properties for ADO objects.
    

## XML
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  [How to: Export a Report to XML](7e746a40-6227-1481-f631-702c3cf42d0f.md)
    
      - Describes how to export the contents of a report to an XML file.
    
-  [How to: Export Data, Schema, and Related Tables to XML](4f84813a-bc39-ac03-f04f-624f74eed190.md)
    
      - Describes how to export data and formatting contained in a table to an XML file.
    

-  [How Do I... in Access](44a3e88e-df6d-9a2e-2241-262156469df8.md)
    
