
# Errors Collection (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

An  **Errors** collection contains all stored **Error** objects, each of which pertains to a single operation involving DAO.


## Remarks

Any operation involving DAO objects can generate one or more errors. As each error occurs, one or more  **Error** objects are placed in the **Errors** collection of the **DBEngine** object. When another DAO operation generates an error, the **Errors** collection is cleared, and the new set of **Error** objects is placed in the **Errors** collection. The highest-numbered object in the **Errors** collection `(DBEngine.Errors.Count - 1)` corresponds to the error reported by the Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) **Err** object.

DAO operations that don't generate an error have no effect on the  **Errors** collection.

Elements of the  **Errors** collection aren't appended as they typically are with other collections, so the **Errors** collection doesn't support the **Append** and **Delete** methods.

The set of  **Error** objects in the **Errors** collection describes one error. The first **Error** object is the lowest level error, the second the next higher level, and so forth. For example, if an ODBC error occurs while trying to open a **[Recordset](9774232c-e6da-175b-fc7f-ed2ab7908fa0.md)** object, the first error object contains the lowest level ODBC error; subsequent errors contain the ODBC errors returned by the various layers of ODBC. In this case, the ODBC driver manager, and possibly the driver itself, return separate **Error** objects. The last **Error** object contains the DAO error indicating that the object couldn't be opened.

Enumerating the specific errors in the  **Errors** collection enables your error-handling routines to more precisely determine the cause and origin of an error, and take appropriate steps to recover.




 **Note**  If you use the  **New** keyword to create an object that causes an error either before or while being placed into the **Errors** collection, the collection doesn't contain error information about that object, because the new object is not associated with the **DBEngine** object. However, the error information is available in the VBA **Err** object.


## Example

This example forces an error, traps it, and displays the  **Description**, **Number**, **Source**, **HelpContext**, and **HelpFile** properties of the resulting **Error** object.


```vb
Sub DescriptionX() 
 
 Dim dbsTest As Database 
 
 On Error GoTo ErrorHandler 
 
 ' Intentionally trigger an error. 
 Set dbsTest = OpenDatabase("NoDatabase") 
 
 Exit Sub 
 
ErrorHandler: 
 Dim strError As String 
 Dim errLoop As Error 
 
 ' Enumerate Errors collection and display properties of 
 ' each Error object. 
 For Each errLoop In Errors 
 With errLoop 
 strError = _ 
 "Error #" &; .Number &; vbCr 
 strError = strError &; _ 
 " " &; .Description &; vbCr 
 strError = strError &; _ 
 " (Source: " &; .Source &; ")" &; vbCr 
 strError = strError &; _ 
 "Press F1 to see topic " &; .HelpContext &; vbCr 
 strError = strError &; _ 
 " in the file " &; .HelpFile &; "." 
 End With 
 MsgBox strError 
 Next 
 
 Resume Next 
 
End Sub
```

