
# Form.CurrentSectionTop Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use this property to determine the distance in twips from the top edge of the current section to the top edge of the form. Read/write  **Integer**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **CurrentSectionTop**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Form** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **CurrentSectionTop** property setting changes whenever a user scrolls through a form.

For forms whose  ** [DefaultView](bb44eca9-1576-794a-0558-f67e2d37559b.md)**property is set to Single Form, if the user scrolls above the upper-left corner of the section, the property settings are negative values.

For forms whose  **DefaultView** property is set to Continuous Forms, if a section isn't visible, the **CurrentSectionTop** property is equal to the ** [InsideHeight](7a49b4b4-1bbf-c0ad-d873-ff81f8b99929.md)**property of the form.

The  **CurrentSectionTop** property is useful for finding the positions of detail sections displayed in Form view as continuous forms or in Datasheet view. Each detail section has a different **CurrentSectionTop** property setting, depending on the section's position on the form.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example displays the  **CurrentSectionLeft** and **CurrentSectionTop** property settings for a control on a continuous form. Whenever the user moves to a new record, the property settings for the current section are displayed in the `lblStatus` label in the form's header.


```
Private Sub Form_Current() 
 
 Dim intCurTop As Integer 
 Dim intCurLeft As Integer 
 
 intCurTop = Me.CurrentSectionTop 
 intCurLeft = Me.CurrentSectionLeft 
 Me!lblStatus.Caption = intCurLeft &amp; " , " &amp; intCurTop 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Form Object](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)
#### Other resources


 [Form Object Members](e1976b58-28ca-8f76-cdf3-6732cb06ce6c.md)
