
# PivotItem.ShowDetail Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **True** if the outline is expanded for the specified range (so that the detail of the column or row is visible). The specified range must be a single summary column or row in an outline. Read/write **Variant**. For the  **PivotItem** object (or the **Range** object if the range is in a PivotTable report), this property is set to **True** if the item is showing detail.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **ShowDetail**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **PivotItem** object.


## Remarks

This property isn't available for OLAP data sources.

If the specified range isn't in a PivotTable report, the following statements are true:


- The range must be in a single summary row or column.
    
- This property returns  **False** if _any_ of the children of the row or column are hidden.
    
- Setting this property to  **True** is equivalent to unhiding all the children of the summary row or column.
    
- Setting this property to  **False** is equivalent to hiding all the children of the summary row or column.
    
If the specified range is in a PivotTable report, it's possible to set this property for more than one cell at a time if the range is contiguous. This property can be returned only if the range is a single cell.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PivotItem Object](5829a1d9-0924-9ce8-1120-229e4595285a.md)
#### Other resources


 [PivotItem Object Members](dde86683-8c89-2484-cdd0-8c3db0c06f45.md)
