
# Recordset2.BOF Property (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Returns a value that indicates whether the current record position is before the first record in a  **Recordset** object. Read-only **Boolean**.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **BOF**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset2** object.


## Remarks

You can use the  **BOF** and **EOF** properties to determine whether a **Recordset** object contains records or whether you've gone beyond the limits of a **Recordset** object when you move from record to record.

The location of the current record pointer determines the  **BOF** and **EOF** return values.

If either the  **BOF** or **EOF** property is **True**, there is no current record.

If you open a  **Recordset** object containing no records, the **BOF** and **EOF** properties are set to **True**, and the **Recordset** object's **RecordCount** property setting is 0. When you open a **Recordset** object that contains at least one record, the first record is the current record and the **BOF** and **EOF** properties are **False**; they remain **False** until you move beyond the beginning or end of the **Recordset** object by using the **MovePrevious** or **MoveNext** method, respectively. When you move beyond the beginning or end of the recordset, there is no current record or no record exists.

If you delete the last remaining record in the  **Recordset** object, the **BOF** and **EOF** properties may remain **False** until you attempt to reposition the current record.

If you use the  **MoveLast** method on a **Recordset** object containing records, the last record becomes the current record; if you then use the **MoveNext** method, the current record becomes invalid and the **EOF** property is set to **True**. Conversely, if you use the **MoveFirst** method on a **Recordset** object containing records, the first record becomes the current record; if you then use the **MovePrevious** method, there is no current record and the **BOF** property is set to **True**.

Typically, when you work with all the records in a  **Recordset** object, your code will loop through the records by using the **MoveNext** method until the **EOF** property is set to **True**.

If you use the  **MoveNext** method while the **EOF** property is set to **True** or the **MovePrevious** method while the **BOF** property is set to **True**, an error occurs.

This table shows which Move methods are allowed with different combinations of the  **BOF** and **EOF** properties.



|****|**MoveFirst,MoveLast**|**MovePrevious,Move < 0**|**Move 0**|**MoveNext,Move > 0**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**BOF=True,** **EOF=False**|Allowed|Error|Error|Allowed|
|**BOF=False,** **EOF=True**|Allowed|Allowed|Error|Error|
|Both  **True**|Error|Error|Error|Error|
|Both  **False**|Allowed|Allowed|Allowed|Allowed|
Allowing a Move method doesn't mean that the method will successfully locate a record. It merely indicates that an attempt to perform the specified Move method is allowed and won't generate an error. The state of the  **BOF** and **EOF** properties may change as a result of the attempted Move.

An  **OpenRecordset** method internally invokes a **MoveFirst** method. Therefore, using an **OpenRecordset** method on an empty set of records sets the **BOF** and **EOF** properties to **True**. (See the following table for the behavior of a failed **MoveFirst** method.)

All Move methods that successfully locate a record will set both  **BOF** and **EOF** to **False**.

In a Microsoft Access workspace, if you add a record to an empty recordset,  **BOF** will become **False**, but **EOF** will remain **True**, indicating that the current position is at the end of recordset.

Any  **Delete** method, even if it removes the only remaining record from a recordset, won't change the setting of the **BOF** or **EOF** property.

The following table shows how Move methods that don't locate a record affect the  **BOF** and **EOF** property settings.



|****|**BOF**|**EOF**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**MoveFirst**, **MoveLast**|**True**|**True**|
|**Move** 0|No change|No change|
|**MovePrevious**, **Move** < 0|**True**|No change|
|**MoveNext**, **Move** > 0|No change|**True**|
