
# SaveToFile Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Saves the binary contents of a [Stream](d49b1514-e0b4-0aca-d5c2-8266f3f4fe65.md) to a file.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _Stream_. **SaveToFile** _FileName_, _SaveOptions_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _FileName_
    
- A  **String** value that contains the fully-qualified name of the file to which the contents of the **Stream** will be saved. You can save to any valid local location, or any location you have access to via a UNC value.
    
-  _SaveOptions_
    
- A [SaveOptionsEnum](2a4e4c7a-6331-7270-0514-cc549c721ffd.md) value that specifies whether a new file should be created by **SaveToFile**, if it does not already exist. Default value is **adSaveCreateNotExists**. With these options you can specify that an error occurs if the specified file does not exist. You can also specify that **SaveToFile** overwrites the current contents of an existing file.
    

 **Note**  If you overwrite an existing file (when  **adSaveCreateOverwrite** is set), **SaveToFile** truncates any bytes from the original existing file that follow the new[EOS](97cd23ef-cca8-4dcc-2641-082a0e1b853c.md).


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

 **SaveToFile** may be used to copy the contents of a **Stream** object to a local file. There is no change in the contents or properties of the **Stream** object. The **Stream** object must be open before calling **SaveToFile**.

This method does not change the association of the  **Stream** object to its underlying source. The **Stream** object will still be associated with the original URL or **Record** that was its source when opened.

After a  **SaveToFile** operation, the current position ([Position](a07c9197-673b-ddf2-fca9-b0b54fbd67b4.md)) in the stream is set to the beginning of the stream (0).

