
# Section.KeepTogether Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **KeepTogether** property for a section to print a form or report section all on one page. For example, you might have a group of related information that you don't want printed across two pages. The **KeepTogether** property applies only to form and report sections (except page headers and page footers). Read/write **Boolean**.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **KeepTogether**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Section** object.


## Remarks

The  **KeepTogether** property for a section uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Visual Basic**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Yes| **True**|Microsoft Access starts printing the section at the top of the next page if it can't print the entire section on the current page.|
|No| **False**|(Default) Microsoft Access prints as much of the section as possible on the current page and prints the rest on the next page.|
You can set the  **KeepTogether** property for a section only in form Design view or report Design view.

Usually, when a page break occurs while a section is being printed, Microsoft Access continues printing the section on the next page. By using the section's  **KeepTogether** property, you can print the section all on one page. If a section is longer than one page, Microsoft Access starts printing it on the next page and continues on the following page.

If the  **KeepTogether**property for a group is set to Whole Group or With First Detail and the  **KeepTogether** property for a section is set to No, the **KeepTogether** property setting for the section is ignored.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Section Object](9edc5e29-bdd6-7627-230e-ca3812e0414e.md)
#### Other resources


 [Section Object Members](9c145cfa-d2c2-6559-cdd9-63813774c026.md)
