
# NavigationButton.LostFocus Event (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


The  **LostFocus** event occurs when the specified object loses the focus.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **LostFocus**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **NavigationButton** object.


### Return Value

nothing


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

To run a macro or event procedure when these events occur, set the  **OnLostFocus**property to the name of the macro or to [Event Procedure].

This events occurs when the focus moves in response to a user action, such as pressing the TAB key or clicking the object, or when you use the  **SetFocus**method in Visual Basic or the SelectObject, GoToRecord, GoToControl, or GoToPage action in a macro.

A control can receive the focus only if its  **Visible**and  **Enabled** properties are set to Yes. A form can receive the focus only if it has no controls or if all visible controls are disabled. If a form contains any visible, enabled controls, the GotFocus event for the form doesn't occur.

You can specify what happens when a form or control receives the focus by running a macro or an event procedure when the  **GotFocus** event occurs. For example, by attaching a **GotFocus** event procedure to each control on a form, you can guide the user through your application by displaying brief instructions or messages in a text box. You can also provide visual cues by enabling, disabling, or displaying controls that depend on the control with the focus.


 **Note**  To customize the order in which the focus moves from control to control on a form when you press the TAB key, set the tab order or specify access keys for the controls.

The  **LostFocus** event differs from the **Exit**event in that the  **LostFocus** event occurs every time a control loses the focus. The **Exit** event occurs only before a control loses the focus to another control on the same form. The **LostFocus** event occurs after the **Exit** event.

If you move the focus to a control on a form, and that control doesn't have the focus on that form, the  **Exit** and **LostFocus** events for the control that does have the focus on the form occur before the **Enter** and **GotFocus** events for the control you moved to.

If you use the mouse to move the focus from a control on a main form to a control on a subform of that form, the following events occur:

 **Exit** (for the control on the main form)

ß

 **LostFocus** (for the control on the main form)

ß

 **Enter** (for the subform control)

ß

 **Exit** (for the control on the subform that had the focus)

ß

 **LostFocus** (for the control on the subform that had the focus)

ß

 **Enter** (for the control on the subform that the focus moved to)

ß

 **GotFocus** (for the control on the subform that the focus moved to)

If the control you move to on the subform previously had the focus, neither its  **Enter** event nor its **GotFocus** event occurs, but the **Enter** event for the subform control does occur. If you move the focus from a control on a subform to a control on the main form, the **Exit** and **LostFocus** events for the control on the subform don't occur, just the **Exit** event for the subform control and the **Enter** and **GotFocus** events for the control on the main form.


 **Note**  You often use the mouse or a key such as TAB to move the focus to another control. This causes mouse or keyboard events to occur in addition to the events discussed in this topic.

When you switch between two open forms, the  **Deactivate**event occurs for the first form, and the  **Activate**event occurs for the second form. If the forms contain no visible, enabled controls, the  **LostFocus** event occurs for the first form before the **Deactivate** event, and the **GotFocus** event occurs for the second form after the **Activate** event.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example displays a message in a label when the focus moves to an option button.

To try the example, add the following event procedures to a form named Contacts that contains an option button named OptionYes and a label named LabelYes.




```
Private Sub OptionYes_GotFocus() 
 Me!LabelYes.Caption = "Option button 'Yes' has the focus." 
End Sub 
 
Private Sub OptionYes_LostFocus() 
 Me!LabelYes.Caption = "" ' Clear caption. 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [NavigationButton Object](ac6ba9b4-45aa-0d92-d01d-fd8e8b9cede6.md)
#### Other resources


 [NavigationButton Object Members](e1d63e3c-ee09-4302-21dc-96fa76cf50fd.md)
