
# TabControl.Style Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **Style** property to specify or determine the appearance of tabs on a tab control. Read/write **Byte**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Style**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **TabControl** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **Style** property uses the following settings.



|**Setting**|**Visual Basic**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Tabs| **0**|(Default) Tabs appear as tabs.|
|Buttons| **1**|Tabs appear as buttons.|
|None| **2**|No tabs appear in the control.|
You can also set the default for this property by setting a control's  **DefaultControl**property in Visual Basic.

You can set the  **Style** property in any view.

When the tab control's  **Style** property is set to Tabs or Buttons, the appearance of the tabs is determined by the **TabFixedHeight**,  **TabFixedWidth**, and  **MultiRow**properties.

You could set the tab control's  **Style** property to None if you wanted complete control over when a user could move between tabs. In prior versions of Microsoft Access, wizard dialogs were created by using multiple-page forms. You can now use a tab control create your own wizard with each page of the wizard contained on a separate page of a tab control with its **Style** property set to None.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example causes tabs to appear as buttons on the tab control named "TabCtl1" on the "Mailing List" form.


```
Forms("Mailing List").Controls("TabCtl1").Style = 1
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [TabControl Object](05f7de7b-8665-df6d-3fbb-47f8547d3baf.md)
#### Other resources


 [TabControl Object Members](d6de9ec4-e7f9-5c26-d750-d7c134ec9fb0.md)
