
# Module Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A  **Module** object refers to a standard module or a class module.

## Remarks

Microsoft Access includes class modules that are not associated with any object, and form modules and report modules, which are associated with a form or report.

To determine whether a  **Module** object represents a standard module or a class module from code, check the **Module** object's **Type**property.

The  ** [Modules](f60a9929-4b79-cfed-8fb3-a4869a3afe9f.md)**collection contains all open  **Module** objects, regardless of their type. Modules in the **Modules** collection can be compiled or uncompiled.

To return a reference to a particular standard or class  **Module** object in the **Modules** collection, use any of the following syntax forms.



|**Syntax**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| **Modules**!modulename|The modulename argument is the name of the **Module** object.|
| **Modules**("modulename")|The modulename argument is the name of the **Module** object.|
| **Modules**(index)|The index argument is the numeric position of the object within the collection.|
The following example returns a reference to a standard  **Module** object and assigns it to an object variable:




```
Dim mdl As Module 
Set mdl = Modules![Utility Functions]
```

Note that the brackets enclosing the name of the  **Module** object are necessary only if the name of the **Module** includes spaces.

The next example returns a reference to a form  **Module** object and assigns it to an object variable:




```
Dim mdl As Module 
Set mdl = Modules!Form_Employees
```

To refer to a specific form or report module, you can also use the  ** [Form](72ef9219-142b-b690-b696-3eba9a5d4522.md)**or  ** [Report](6f77c1b4-a9ce-7caa-204c-fe0755c6f9df.md)**object's  **Module**property:




```
Forms!formname.Module
```

The following example also returns a reference to the  **Module** object associated with an Employees form and assigns it to an object variable:




```
Dim mdl As Module 
Set mdl = Forms!Employees.Module
```

Once you've returned a reference to a  **Module** object, you can set or read its properties and apply its methods.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [Module Object Members](c2e71012-645e-b818-1247-9775f221619e.md)
