
# Report.Module Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **Module** property to specify a report module. Read-only **Module** object.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Module**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Report** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **Module** property also returns a reference to a specified **Module**object.

Use the  **Module** property to access the properties and methods of a **Module** object associated with a **Form** or **Report** object.

The setting of the  **HasModule**property of a form or report determines whether it has an associated module. If the  **HasModule** property is **False**, the form or report does not have an associated module. When you refer to the  **Module** property of that form or report while in design view, Microsoft Access creates the associated module and sets the **HasModule** property to **True**. If you refer to the  **Module** property of a form or report at run-time and the object has its **HasModule** property set to **False**, an error will occur.

You could use this property with any of the properties and methods of the module object.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **Module** property to insert the **Beep** method in a form's Open event.


```
Dim strFormOpenCode As String 
Dim mdl As Module 
 
Set mdl = Forms!MyForm.Module 
strFormOpenCode = "Sub Form_Open(Cancel As Integer)" _ 
 &amp; vbCrLf &amp; "Beep" &amp; vbCrLf &amp; "End Sub" 
 With mdl 
 .InsertText strFormOpenCode 
 End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Report Object](6f77c1b4-a9ce-7caa-204c-fe0755c6f9df.md)
#### Other resources


 [Report Object Members](73370a33-1ca0-da4d-9e36-88011bc2b93e.md)
