
# OLEObjects Object (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of all the  ** [OLEObject](bc3ef12d-1531-6c21-71ab-3df6bb851f3b.md)** objects on the specified worksheet.

## Remarks

 Each **OLEObject** object represents an ActiveX control or a linked or embedded OLE object.

An ActiveX control on a sheet has two names: the name of the shape that contains the control, which you can see in the  **Name** box when you view the sheet, and the code name for the control, which you can see in the cell to the right of **(Name)** in the **Properties** window. When you first add a control to a sheet, the shape name and code name match. However, if you change either the shape name or code name, the other is not automatically changed to match.


## Example

Use the  ** [OLEObjects](3f178081-2a42-a751-ae79-8ca149d8ec45.md)** method to return the **OLEObjects** collection. The following example hides all the OLE objects on worksheet one.


```
Worksheets(1).OLEObjects.Visible = False
```

Use the  ** [Add](2acd369f-6dd6-0e0e-043c-a691796659a9.md)** method to create a new OLE object and add it to the **OLEObjects** collection. The following example creates a new OLE object representing the bitmap file Arcade.bmp and adds it to worksheet one.




```
Worksheets(1).OLEObjects.Add FileName:="arcade.gif"
```

The following example creates a new ActiveX control (a list box) and adds it to worksheet one.




```
Worksheets(1).OLEObjects.Add ClassType:="Forms.ListBox.1"
```

You use the code name of a control in the names of its event procedures. However, when you return a control from the  ** [Shapes](f9c6548c-d028-1b70-a11c-c4b45ff19177.md)** or **OLEObjects** collection for a sheet, you must use the shape name, not the code name, to refer to the control by name. For example, assume that you add a check box to a sheet and that both the default shape name and the default code name are CheckBox1. If you then change the control code name by typing chkFinished next to **(Name)** in the **Properties** window, you must use chkFinished in event procedures names, but you still have to use CheckBox1 to return the control from the **Shapes** or **OLEObject** collection, as shown in the following example.




```
Private Sub chkFinished_Click() 
 ActiveSheet.OLEObjects("CheckBox1").Object.Value = 1 
End Sub
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Excel Object Model Reference](11ea8598-8a20-92d5-f98b-0da04263bf2c.md)
#### Other resources


 [OLEObjects Object Members](7c3b0619-a988-1b8c-51b1-4c8ef3180264.md)
