
# Unique Table, Unique Schema, Unique Catalog Properties--Dynamic (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Enables you to closely control modifications to a particular base table in a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) that was formed by a JOIN operation on multiple base tables.

-  **Unique Table** specifies the name of the base table upon which updates, insertions, and deletions are allowed.
    
-  **Unique Schema** specifies the _schema_, or name of the owner of the table.
    
-  **Unique Catalog** specifies the _catalog_, or name of the database containing the table.
    

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **String** value that is the name of a table, schema, or catalog.


## Remarks

The desired base table is uniquely identified by its catalog, schema, and table names. When the  **Unique Table** property is set, the values of the **Unique Schema** or **Unique Catalog** properties are used to find the base table. It is intended, but not required, that either or both the **Unique Schema** and **Unique Catalog** properties be set before the **Unique Table** property is set.

The primary key of the  **Unique Table** is treated as the primary key of the entire **Recordset**. This is the key that is used for any method requiring a primary key.

While  **Unique Table** is set, the[Delete](62c39b4d-223e-7b48-6780-6cd272e3114e.md) method affects only the named table. The[AddNew](bae09be0-5707-4f38-9c74-0acd0f29dbac.md), [Resync](f594a200-56e6-fcf5-9b0a-900c56377f24.md), [Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md), and [UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md) methods affect any appropriate underlying base tables of the **Recordset**.

 **Unique Table** must be specified before doing any custom resynchronizations. If **Unique Table** has not been specified, the[Resync Command](5c0c0819-620a-6eb0-a217-69113ec8d094.md) property will have no effect.

A run-time error results if a unique base table cannot be found.

These dynamic properties are all appended to the  **Recordset** object[Properties](4d662790-1252-c930-e6f9-edf6a38636af.md) collection when the[CursorLocation](8a048bd4-ae25-a555-1c07-14364b7e6560.md) property is set to **adUseClient**.

