
# Pages Object (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **Pages** collection contains all ** [Page](6351b0ea-bd07-5ee6-ea20-0d410e09d939.md)**objects in a tab control.

## Remarks

The  **Pages** collection is a special kind of **Controls** collection belonging to the tab control. It contains **Page** objects, which are controls. The **Pages** collection differs from a typical **Controls** collection in that you can add and remove **Page** objects by using methods of the **Pages** collection.

To add a new  **Page** object to the **Pages** collection from Visual Basic, use the ** [Add](f7235fb2-d775-85ea-7c50-62fa3f663d32.md)**method of the  **Pages** collection. To remove an existing **Page** object, use the ** [Remove](24dff544-d544-2be5-6506-66d3f1ab3a0f.md)**method of the  **Pages** collection. To count the number of **Page** objects in the **Pages** collection, use the ** [Count](6bf4c0b5-5ee5-a02e-ada8-4d9771287a82.md)**property of the  **Pages** collection.

You can also use the  ** [CreateControl](f5b1689c-62c4-163d-c659-607cee7572f6.md)**method to add a  **Page** object to the **Pages** collection of a tab control. To do this, you must specify the name of the tab control for theParent argument of the **CreateControl** function. The ** [ControlType](dec0d7dd-f0e1-a8d7-f026-9ff128481d2a.md)**property constant for a  **Page** object is **acPage**.

You can enumerate through the  **Pages** collection by using the **For Each...Next** statement.

Individual  **Page** objects in the **Pages** collection are indexed beginning with zero.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Access Object Model Reference](2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650.md)
#### Other resources


 [Pages Object Members](63c876fe-41cf-ecfc-587d-236da900a15a.md)
