
# Screen.MousePointer Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **MousePointer** property together with the ** [Screen](00743775-071b-9ccd-7687-f3b992e9346e.md)**object to specify or determine the type of mouse pointer currently displayed. Read/write  **Integer**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MousePointer**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Screen** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The setting for the  **MousePointer** property is an **Integer** value representing one of the following pointers.



|**Setting**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|0|(Default) The shape is determined by Microsoft Access|
|1|Normal Select (Arrow)|
|3|Text Select (I-Beam)|
|7|Vertical Resize (Size N, S)|
|9|Horizontal Resize (Size E, W)|
|11|Busy (Hourglass)|

 **Note**  Setting the  **MousePointer** property to an integer other than one that appears in the preceding table will cause the property to be set to 0.

The  **MousePointer** property affects the appearance of the mouse pointer over the entire screen. Some custom controls have a **MousePointer** property that, if set, will specify how the mouse pointer is displayed when it's positioned over the control.

You could use the  **MousePointer** property to indicate that your application is busy by setting the property to 11 to display an hourglass icon. You can also read the **MousePointer** property to determine what's being displayed. This could be useful if you wanted to prevent a user from clicking a command button while the mouse pointer is displaying an hourglass icon.

Setting the  **MousePointer** property to 11 is the same as passing the **True** (-1) argument to the ** [Hourglass](e032e879-6ce4-982d-08cb-f9622c000b11.md)**method of the  ** [DoCmd](3ce44cca-9979-0a1e-9787-079a52ce528f.md)**object. Conversely, passing the  **True** argument to the **Hourglass** method also sets the **MousePointer** property to 11.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example changes the mouse pointer to an hourglass.


```
Screen.MousePointer = 11
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Screen Object](00743775-071b-9ccd-7687-f3b992e9346e.md)
#### Other resources


 [Screen Object Members](82c9e4cb-95a9-6842-2629-bcd71c81838f.md)
