
# ShapeRange.RerouteConnections Method (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


This method reroutes all connectors attached to the specified shape; if the specified shape is a connector, it's rerouted.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **RerouteConnections**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ShapeRange** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Reroutes connectors so that they take the shortest possible path between the shapes they connect. To do this, the  **RerouteConnections** method may detach the ends of a connector and reattach them to different connecting sites on the connected shapes.

If this method is applied to a connector, only that connector will be rerouted. If this method is applied to a connected shape, all connectors to that shape will be rerouted.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example adds two rectangles to  `myDocument`, connects them with a curved connector, and then reroutes the connector so that it takes the shortest possible path between the two rectangles. Note that the  **RerouteConnections** method adjusts the size and position of the connector and determines which connecting sites it attaches to, so the values you initially specify for theConnectionSite arguments used with the ** [BeginConnect](f2539299-1b35-7cf9-d315-9df76299fc8b.md)** and ** [EndConnect](c8cc392c-8a54-99ed-ffdd-e5173792408f.md)** methods are irrelevant.


```
Set myDocument = Worksheets(1) 
Set s = myDocument.Shapes 
Set firstRect = s.AddShape(msoShapeRectangle, _ 
 100, 50, 200, 100) 
Set secondRect = s.AddShape(msoShapeRectangle, _ 
 300, 300, 200, 100) 
Set newConnector = s.AddConnector(msoConnectorCurve, _ 
 0, 0, 100, 100) 
With newConnector.ConnectorFormat 
 .BeginConnect firstRect, 1 
 .EndConnect secondRect, 1 
End With 
newConnector.RerouteConnections
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ShapeRange Object](e1b8229c-73a0-4a77-5e00-4bcec9032260.md)
#### Other resources


 [ShapeRange Object Members](1d1950c5-32ac-dfc0-8c19-07159a29a2a0.md)
