
# SetDisplayedCategories Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **SetDisplayedCategories** action to specify which categories are displayed under **Navigate to Category** in the title bar of the Navigation Pane. For example, if you want to prevent users from switching the Navigation Pane so that it displays objects sorted by **Created Date**, you can use this action to hide that option in the title bar's drop-down list.


## Setting

The  **SetDisplayedCategories** action has the following arguments.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Show**|Select  **Yes** to show the category or categories. Select **No** to hide them.|
|**Category**|Enter or select the name of the category you want to show or hide. Leave blank to show or hide all categories.|

## Remarks


- The caption in the title bar of the Navigation pane indicates which filter, if any, is currently active. Click anywhere in the bar to display the drop-down list. The items that this macro action controls are listed under  **Navigate to Category**.
    
- This action only enables or disables the display of the specified category or categories; it does not perform any switching of the Navigation Pane display. For example, if you are displaying objects sorted by  **Creation Date** and you use the **SetDisplayedCategories** action to disable the **Creation Date** option, Access does not switch the Navigation Pane to another category.
    
- To run the  **SetDisplayedCategories** action in a VBA module, use the **SetDisplayedCategories** method of the **DoCmd** object.
    
