
# NavigationButton.StatusBarText Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **StatusBarText** property to specify the text that is displayed in the status bar when a control is selected. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **StatusBarText**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **NavigationButton** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You set the  **StatusBarText** property by using a string expression up to 255 characters long.


 **Note**  The length of the text you can display in the status bar depends on your computer hardware and video display.

You can use the  **StatusBarText** property to provide specific information about a control. For example, when a text box has the focus, a brief instruction can tell the user what kind of data to enter


 **Note**  You can also use the  **ControlTipText**property to display a ScreenTip for a control.

If you create a control by dragging a field from the field list, the value in a field's  **Description**property is copied to the  **StatusBarText** property.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the status bar text to be displayed when the "Address_TextBox" control in the "Mailing List" form has the focus in Form View. 


```
Forms("Mailing List").Controls("Address_TextBox"). _ 
 StatusBarText = "Enter the company's mailing address." 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [NavigationButton Object](ac6ba9b4-45aa-0d92-d01d-fd8e8b9cede6.md)
#### Other resources


 [NavigationButton Object Members](e1d63e3c-ee09-4302-21dc-96fa76cf50fd.md)
