
# ObjectFrame.OLEClass Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **OLEClass** property to obtain a description of the kind of OLE object contained in a chart control or an unbound object frame. Read-only **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **OLEClass**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **ObjectFrame** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This property is set automatically in the control's property sheet to a string expression when you click  **Object** on the **Insert** menu to add an OLE object to a form. The **OLEClass** property setting is read-only in all views.


 **Note**  If you are using Automation (formerly called OLE Automation) and need to specify a name to refer to the OLE object, use the  **Class**property.

The  **OLEClass** property and the **Class** property are similar but not identical. The **OLEClass** property setting is a general description of the OLE object whereas the **Class** property setting is the name used to refer to the OLE object in Visual Basic. Examples of **OLEClass** property settings are Microsoft Excel Chart, Microsoft Word Document, and Paintbrush Picture.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example displays a message indicating the OLE class for the "Customer Picture" unbound object frame on the "Order Entry" form.


```
MsgBox "The OLE class = " &amp; Forms("Order Entry").Controls("Customer Picture").OLEClass
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ObjectFrame Object](0eb85477-58d7-249a-2bf7-f2f3960a45a9.md)
#### Other resources


 [ObjectFrame Object Members](65229083-68ec-b870-50f4-a6c329259a39.md)
