
# Property Object (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Represents a dynamic characteristic of an ADO object that is defined by the provider.

## Remarks

ADO objects have two types of properties: built-in and dynamic.

Built-in properties are those properties implemented in ADO and immediately available to any new object, using the syntax. They do not appear as  **Property** objects in an object's[Properties](4d662790-1252-c930-e6f9-edf6a38636af.md) collection, so although you can change their values, you cannot modify their characteristics.

Dynamic properties are defined by the underlying data provider, and appear in the  **Properties** collection for the appropriate ADO object. For example, a property specific to the provider may indicate if a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object supports transactions or updating. These additional properties will appear as **Property** objects in that **Recordset** object's **Properties** collection. Dynamic properties can be referenced only through the collection, using the `MyObject.Properties(0)` or or `MyObject.Properties("Name")` syntax.

You cannot delete either kind of property.

A dynamic  **Property** object has four built-in properties of its own:


- The [Name](4b19bd08-ac3c-86f0-471d-06a37a0d4f89.md) property is a string that identifies the property.
    
- The [Type](14d99172-2145-05ae-620b-459ba097f05c.md) property is an integer that specifies the property data type.
    
- The [Value](ff21d122-98e3-2b48-d92f-e696b8079fc5.md) property is a variant that contains the property setting. **Value** is the default property for a **Property** object.
    
- The [Attributes](4cc1f036-606e-7d4b-d270-af374e9d99fa.md) property is a long value that indicates characteristics of the property specific to the provider.
    
