
# MoveRecord Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Return Value](#sectionSection3)
[Remarks](#sectionSection4)



Moves the entity represent by a [Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) to another location.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _Record_. **MoveRecord** ( _Source_, _Destination_, _UserName_, _Password_, _Options_, _Async_ )


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Source_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains a URL identifying the **Record** to be moved. If _Source_ is omitted or specifies an empty string, the object represented by this **Record** is moved. For example, if the **Record** represents a file, the contents of the file are moved to the location specified by _Destination_.
    
-  _Destination_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains a URL specifying the location where _Source_ will be moved.
    
-  _UserName_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains the user ID that, if needed, authorizes access to _Destination_.
    
-  _Password_
    
- Optional. A  **String** that contains the password that, if needed, verifies _UserName_.
    
-  _Options_
    
- Optional. A [MoveRecordOptionsEnum](2785bca0-777c-a802-51d7-6f5cf0fb4210.md) value whose default value is **adMoveUnspecified**. Specifies the behavior of this method.
    
-  _Async_
    
- Optional. A  **Boolean** value that, when **True**, specifies this operation should be asynchronous .
    

## Return Value
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

A  **String** value. Typically, the value of _Destination_ is returned. However, the exact value returned is provider-dependent.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>

The values of  _Source_ and _Destination_ must not be identical; otherwise, a run-time error occurs. At least the server, path, and resource names must differ.

For files moved using the Internet Publishing Provider, this method updates all hypertext links in files being moved unless otherwise specified by  _Options_. This method fails if _Destination_ identifies an existing object (for example, a file or directory), unless **adMoveOverWrite** is specified.


 **Note**  Use the  **adMoveOverWrite** option judiciously. For example, specifying this option when moving a file to a directory will delete the directory and replace it with the file.

Certain attributes of the  **Record** object, such as the[ParentURL](ec7ec476-6f9e-8486-fe02-74995975df5c.md) property, will not be updated after this operation completes. Refresh the **Record** object's properties by closing the **Record**, then re-opening it with the URL of the location where the file or directory was moved.

If this  **Record** was obtained from a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md), the new location of the moved file or directory will not be reflected immediately in the  **Recordset**. Refresh the **Recordset** by closing and re-opening it.


 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).

