
# Application.LanguageSettings Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **LanguageSettings** property to return a read-only reference to the current **LanguageSettings**object and its related properties.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **LanguageSettings**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Once you establish a reference to the  **LanguageSettings** object, you can access all the properties and methods of the object. You can set a reference to the **LanguageSettings** object by clicking **References** on the **Tools** menu while in module Design view. Then set a reference to the Microsoft Office Object Library in the **References** dialog box by selecting the appropriate check box. Microsoft Access can set this reference for you if you use a Microsoft Office Object Library constant to set a **LanguageSettings** object's property or as an argument to a **LanguageSettings** object's method.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example displays a message indicating the language Access uses for Help on the user's machine. A listing of all the available languages and their identification numbers is available in the Visual Basic Editor by selecting  **Object Browser** from the **View** menu, typing the word **MsoLanguageID** in the **Search Text box**, and clicking the  **Search** button.


```
Dim mli As MsoLanguageID 
mli = Application.LanguageSettings.LanguageID(msoLanguageIDHelp) 
MsgBox "The language ID used for Access Help is " &amp; mli
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](aefb0713-97e6-e2c7-e530-8fd2e1316a55.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](3ab5276c-d52a-72a9-244c-ec92ead48811.md)
