
# Source Property (ADO Record)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the data source or object represented by the [Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md).

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **Variant** value that indicates the entity represented by the **Record**.


## Remarks

The  **Source** property returns the _Source_ argument of the **Record** object[Open](ba71c5c7-326e-d3b6-0e74-e8343ee6896f.md) method. It can contain an absolute or relative URL string. An absolute URL can be used without setting the[ActiveConnection](5501b2d7-b62c-5fff-1edd-2b7efb3f8c4a.md) property to directly open the **Record** object. An implicit **Connection** object is created in this case.

The  **Source** property can also contain a reference to an already open **Recordset**, which opens a **Record** object representing the current row in the **Recordset**.

The  **Source** property could also contain a reference to a[Command](64f4ef03-f858-c004-b891-0c96d13a5e6e.md) object which returns a single row of data from the provider.

If the  **ActiveConnection** property is also set, then the **Source** property must point to some object that exists within the scope of that connection. For example, in tree-structured namespaces, if the **Source** property contains an absolute URL, it must point to a node that exists inside the scope of the node identified by the URL in the connection string. If the **Source** property contains a relative URL, then it is validated within the context set by the **ActiveConnection** property.

The  **Source** property is read/write while the **Record** object is closed, and is read-only while the **Record** object is open.


 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).

