
# CursorType Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the type of cursor used in a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a [CursorTypeEnum](7c5fa8b2-85ea-a0a7-41f1-a78650aced3e.md) value. The default value is **adOpenForwardOnly**.


## Remarks

Use the  **CursorType** property to specify the type of cursor that should be used when opening the **Recordset** object.

Only a setting of  **adOpenStatic** is supported if the[CursorLocation](8a048bd4-ae25-a555-1c07-14364b7e6560.md) property is set to **adUseClient**. If an unsupported value is set, then no error will result; the closest supported **CursorType** will be used instead.

If a provider does not support the requested cursor type, it may return another cursor type. The  **CursorType** property will change to match the actual cursor type in use when the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object is open. To verify specific functionality of the returned cursor, use the[Supports](2b4062ce-44df-4e84-1ce9-d6618c10c2af.md) method. After you close the **Recordset**, the **CursorType** property reverts to its original setting.

The following chart shows the provider functionality (identified by  **Supports** method constants) required for each cursor type.



|**For a Recordset of this CursorType**|**The Supports method must return True for all of these constants**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**adOpenForwardOnly**|none|
|**adOpenKeyset**|**adBookmark**, **adHoldRecords**, **adMovePrevious**, **adResync**|
|**adOpenDynamic**|**adMovePrevious**|
|**adOpenStatic**|**adBookmark**, **adHoldRecords**, **adMovePrevious**, **adResync**|

 **Note**  Although  **Supports** ( **adUpdateBatch** ) may be true for dynamic and forward-only cursors, for batch updates you should use either a keyset or static cursor. Set the[LockType](1d2622dc-6cab-1b7f-98a8-97a41d5c047f.md) property to **adLockBatchOptimistic** and the **CursorLocation** property to **adUseClient** to enable the Cursor Service for OLE DB, which is required for batch updates.

The  **CursorType** property is read/write when the **Recordset** is closed and read-only when it is open.

 **Remote Data Service Usage** When used on a client-side Recordset object, the **CursorType** property can be set only to **adOpenStatic**.

