
# GetString Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Return Value](#sectionSection2)
[Parameters](#sectionSection3)
[Remarks](#sectionSection4)



Returns the [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) as a string.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _Variant_ = _recordset_. **GetString**( _StringFormat_, _NumRows_, _ColumnDelimiter_, _RowDelimiter_, _NullExpr_ )


## Return Value
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Returns the  **Recordset** as a string-valued **Variant** (BSTR).


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  _StringFormat_
    
- A [StringFormatEnum](ab069d67-d983-f390-5d45-876a9f9d9691.md) value that specifies how the **Recordset** should be converted to a string. The _RowDelimiter_, _ColumnDelimiter_, and _NullExpr_ parameters are used only with a _StringFormat_ of **adClipString**.
    
-  _NumRows_
    
- Optional. The number of rows to be converted in the  **Recordset**. If _NumRows_ is not specified, or if it is greater than the total number of rows in the **Recordset**, then all the rows in the **Recordset** are converted.
    
-  _ColumnDelimiter_
    
- Optional. A delimiter used between columns, if specified, otherwise the TAB character.
    
-  _RowDelimiter_
    
- Optional. A delimiter used between rows, if specified, otherwise the CARRIAGE RETURN character.
    
-  _NullExpr_
    
- Optional. An expression used in place of a null value, if specified, otherwise the empty string.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>

Row data, but no schema data, is saved to the string. Therefore, a  **Recordset** cannot be reopened using this string.

This method is equivalent to the RDO  **GetClipString** method.

