
# Resync Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Refreshes the data in the current [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object, or[Fields](029aa738-8726-54a6-1813-b152813948bc.md) collection of a[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) object, from the underlying database.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _Recordset_. **Resync** _AffectRecords_, _ResyncValues_

 _Record_. _Fields_. **Resync** _ResyncValues_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _AffectRecords_
    
- Optional. An [AffectEnum](15393398-d7eb-a685-1bfa-d6712d8e5015.md) value that determines how many records the **Resync** method will affect. The default value is **adAffectAll**. This value is not available with the **Resync** method of the **Fields** collection of a **Record** object.
    
-  _ResyncValues_
    
- Optional. A [ResyncEnum](3d38b77b-6afe-e6a0-1a05-7c7ffc19edef.md) value that specifies whether underlying values are overwritten. The default value is **adResyncAllValues**.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

 **Recordset**

Use the  **Resync** method to resynchronize records in the current **Recordset** with the underlying database. This is useful if you are using either a static or forward-only cursor, but you want to see any changes in the underlying database.

If you set the [CursorLocation](8a048bd4-ae25-a555-1c07-14364b7e6560.md) property to **adUseClient**, **Resync** is only available for non-read-only **Recordset** objects.

Unlike the [Requery](1062d907-979f-020a-b2ed-94e11c0e7d08.md) method, the **Resync** method does not re-execute the **Recordset** object's underlying command. New records in the underlying database will not be visible.

If the attempt to resynchronize fails because of a conflict with the underlying data (for example, a record has been deleted by another user), the provider returns warnings to the [Errors](76c234b8-7fec-11c5-275e-864d5d880ee7.md) collection and a run-time error occurs. Use the[Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property ( **adFilterConflictingRecords** ) and the[Status](bf3ccb36-c985-5fae-4f76-c48a0e20e6f7.md) property to locate records with conflicts.

If the [Unique Table](e6374782-755b-322b-21de-6d6a386dcd98.md) and[Resync Command](5c0c0819-620a-6eb0-a217-69113ec8d094.md) dynamic properties are set, and the **Recordset** is the result of executing a JOIN operation on multiple tables, then the **Resync** method will execute the command given in the **Resync Command** property only on the table named in the **Unique Table** property.

 **Fields**

Use the  **Resync** method to resynchronize the values of the **Fields** collection of a **Record** object with the underlying data source. The[Count](b59f9581-ffd1-471d-44fa-3c1bb812e140.md) property is not affected by this method.

If  _ResyncValues_ is set to **adResyncAllValues** (the default value), then the[UnderlyingValue](f84f4c1c-2bd4-a725-3575-ed063ead13c8.md), [Value](ff21d122-98e3-2b48-d92f-e696b8079fc5.md), and [OriginalValue](02ffc728-4692-d439-e2a6-2f02cca53a71.md) properties of[Field](1dbd535e-48ad-a5c8-a1b2-6776c1e3e19d.md) objects in the collection are synchronized. If _ResyncValues_ is set to **adResyncUnderlyingValues**, only the **UnderlyingValue** property is synchronized.

The value of the  **Status** property for each **Field** object at the time of the call also affects the behavior of **Resync**. For **Field** objects with **Status** values of **adFieldPendingUnknown** or **adFieldPendingInsert**, **Resync** has no effect. For **Status** values of **adFieldPendingChange** or **adFieldPendingDelete**, **Resync** synchronizes data values for fields that still exist at the data source.

 **Resync** will not modify **Status** values of **Field** objects unless an error occurs when **Resync** is called. For example, if the field no longer exists, the provider will return an appropriate **Status** value for the **Field** object, such as **adFieldDoesNotExist**. Returned **Status** values may be logically combined within the value of the **Status** property.

