
# Application.DefaultWorkspaceClone Method (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the  **DefaultWorkspaceClone** method to create a new **Workspace**object without requiring the user to log on again. For example, if you need to conduct two sets of transactions simultaneously in separate workspaces, you can use the  **DefaultWorkspaceClone** method to create a second **Workspace** object with the same user name and password without prompting the user for this information again.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **DefaultWorkspaceClone**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Return Value

Workspace


## Remarks


 **Note**  In Microsoft Access, the  **DefaultWorkspaceClone** method is included in this version of Microsoft Access only for compatibility with previous versions using Data Access Object (DAO) language.

The  **DefaultWorkspaceClone** method creates a clone of the default **Workspace** object in Microsoft Access. The properties of the **Workspace** object clone have settings identical to those of the default **Workspace** object, except for the **Name**property setting. For the default  **Workspace** object, the value of the **Name** property is always #Default Workspace#. For the cloned **Workspace** object, it is #CloneAccess#.

The  **UserName**property of the default  **Workspace** object indicates the name under which the current user logged on. The **Workspace** object clone is equivalent to the **Workspace** object that would be created if the same user logged on again with the same password.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](aefb0713-97e6-e2c7-e530-8fd2e1316a55.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](3ab5276c-d52a-72a9-244c-ec92ead48811.md)
