
# Returning an Object from a Collection (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **Item** property of a collection returns a single object from that collection. The following example sets the `firstBook` variable to a ** [Workbook](8c00aa60-c974-eed3-0812-3c9625eb0d4c.md)**object that represents the first workbook in the  ** [Workbooks](f768da57-013a-e652-0f5d-60b03aa4240a.md)** collection.



```
Set FirstBook = Workbooks.Item(1)
```

The  **Item** property is the default property for most collections, so you can write the same statement more concisely by omitting the **Item** keyword.



```
Set FirstBook = Workbooks(1)
```

For more information about a specific collection, see the Help topic for that collection or the  **Item** property for the collection.

## Named Objects

Although you can usually specify an integer value with the  **Item** property, it may be more convenient to return an object by name. Before you can use a name with the **Item** property, you must name the object. Most often, this is done by setting the object's **Name** property. The following example creates a named worksheet in the active workbook and then refers to the worksheet by name.


```
ActiveWorkbook.Worksheets.Add.Name = "A New Sheet" 
With Worksheets("A New Sheet") 
 .Range("A5:A10").Formula = "=RAND()" 
End With
```


## Predefined Index Values

Some collections have predefined index values you can use to return single objects. Each predefined index value is represented by a constant. For example, you specify an  **XlBordersIndex** constant with the **Item** property of the **Borders** collection to return a single border.

The following example sets the bottom border of cells A1:G1 on Sheet1 to a double line.




```
Worksheets("Sheet1").Range("A1:A1"). _ 
 Borders.Item(xlEdgeBottom).LineStyle = xlDouble
```

