
# Open Method (ADO Stream)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Opens a [Stream](d49b1514-e0b4-0aca-d5c2-8266f3f4fe65.md) object to manipulate streams of binary or text data.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _Stream_. **Open** _ Source_, _Mode_, _OpenOptions_, _UserName_, _Password_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Source_
    
- Optional. A  **Variant** value that specifies the source of data for the **Stream**. _Source_ may contain an absolute URL string that points to an existing node in a well-known tree structure, like an e-mail or file system. A URL should be specified using the URL keyword ("URL= _scheme_:// _server_ / _folder_ "). Alternately, _Source_ may contain a reference to an already open[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) object, which opens the default stream associated with the **Record**. If _Source_ is not specified, a **Stream** is instantiated and opened, associated with no underlying source by default. For more information about URL schemes and their associated providers, see[Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).
    
-  _Mode_
    
- Optional. A [ConnectModeEnum](a15aa733-f899-5fe9-e705-67a4301706d1.md) value that specifies the access mode for the resultant **Stream** (for example, read/write or read-only). Default value is **adModeUnknown**. See the[Mode](62086f4f-8624-16c4-dae1-a17475d1864d.md) property for more information about access modes. If _Mode_ is not specified, it is inherited by the source object. For example, if the source **Record** is opened in read-only mode, the **Stream** will also be opened in read-only mode by default.
    
-  _OpenOptions_
    
- Optional. A [StreamOpenOptionsEnum](d4bbd6be-41f1-cdf2-9d8f-b77ce83fb88e.md) value. Default value is **adOpenStreamUnspecified**.
    
-  _UserName_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains the user identification that, if needed, accesses the **Stream** object.
    
-  _Password_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains the password that, if needed, accesses the **Stream** object.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

When a  **Record** object is passed in as the source parameter, the _UserID_ and _Password_ parameters are not used because access to the **Record** object is already available. Similarly, the[Mode](62086f4f-8624-16c4-dae1-a17475d1864d.md) of the **Record** object is transferred to the **Stream** object.When _Source_ is not specified, the **Stream** opened contains no data and has a[Size](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/deb84313-36d1-fa49-e4cd-daecab96f343%28Office.15%29.aspx) of zero (0). To avoid losing any data that is written to this **Stream** when the **Stream** is closed, save the **Stream** with the[CopyTo](1c1ab950-51f7-7ecc-ccd8-e689db02f06a.md) or[SaveToFile](db0fd95e-8ef3-af87-5346-8f8713153ca7.md) methods, or save it to another memory location.

An  _OpenOptions_ value of **adOpenStreamFromRecord** identifies the contents of the _Source_ parameter to be an already open **Record** object. The default behavior is to treat _Source_ as a URL that points directly to a node in a tree structure, such as a file. The default stream associated with that node is opened.

While the  **Stream** is not open, it is possible to read all the read-only properties of the **Stream**. If a **Stream** is opened asynchronously, all subsequent operations (other than checking the[State](ade0a50c-e2d8-23ac-4ea9-b012fedcd5db.md) and other read-only properties) are blocked until the **Open** operation is completed.

In addition to the options discussed above, by not specifying  _Source_, you can simply instantiate a **Stream** object in memory without associating it with an underlying source. You can dynamically add data to the stream simply by writing binary or text data to the **Stream** with[Write](cabe4581-409f-7f05-bd59-d495bfb2c6fd.md) or[WriteText](1ca2d9d5-11f4-d088-6fc3-53240208bb09.md), or by loading data from a file with [LoadFromFile](33fd543f-bd24-9199-7540-2889b69221c8.md).

