
# Database.PopulatePartial Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)


Synchronizes any changes in a partial replica with the full replica, clears all records in the partial replica, and then repopulates the partial replica based on the current replica filters. (Microsoft Access database engine databases only.).

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **PopulatePartial**( ** _DbPathName_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Database** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _DbPathName_|Required|**String**|The path and name of the full replica from which to populate records.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

When you synchronize a partial replica with a full replica, it is possible to create "orphaned" records in the partial replica. For example, suppose you have a Customers table with its  **[ReplicaFilter](f44273de-2b6a-750f-cb7c-12c3ac2da503.md)** set to `"Region = 'CA'"`. If a user changes a customer's region from CA to NY in the partial replica, and then a synchronization occurs via the  **[Synchronize](5e716a4a-2430-8106-5c34-a02dd28bc4f6.md)** method, the change is propagated to the full replica but the record containing NY in the partial replica is orphaned because it now doesn't meet the replica filter criteria.

To solve the problem of orphaned records, you can use the  **PopulatePartial** method. The **PopulatePartial** method is similar to the **Synchronize** method, but it synchronizes any changes with the full replica, removes all records in the partial replica, and then repopulates the partial replica based on the current replica filters. Even if your replica filters have not changed, **PopulatePartial** will always clear all records in the partial replica and repopulate it based on the current filters.

Generally, you should use the  **PopulatePartial** method when you create a partial replica and whenever you change your replica filters. If your application changes replica filters, you should follow these steps:




1. Synchronize your full replica with the partial replica in which the filters are being changed.
    
2. Use the  **ReplicaFilter** and **[PartialReplica](3cb15639-371e-06e3-e2ba-30466ce09a72.md)** properties to make the desired changes to the replica filter.
    
3. Call the  **PopulatePartial** method to remove all records from the partial replica and transfer all records from the full replica that meet the new replica filter criteria.
    


If a replica filter has changed, and the  **Synchronize** method is invoked without first invoking **PopulatePartial**, a trappable error occurs.

The  **PopulatePartial** method can only be invoked on a partial replica that has been opened for exclusive access. Furthermore, you can't call the **PopulatePartial** method from code running within the partial replica itself. Instead, open the partial replica exclusively from the full replica or another database, then call **PopulatePartial**.




 **Note**  Although  **PopulatePartial** performs a one-way synchronization before clearing and repopulating the partial replica, it is still a good idea to call **Synchronize** before calling **PopulatePartial**. This is because if the call to **Synchronize** fails, a trappable error occurs. You can use this error to decide whether or not to proceed with the **PopulatePartial** method (which removes all records in the partial replica). If **PopulatePartial** is called by itself and an error occurs while records are being synchronized, records in the partial replica will still be cleared, which may not be the desired result.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example uses the  **PopulatePartial** method after changing a replica filter.


```vb
Sub PopulatePartialX() 
 
 Dim tdfCustomers As TableDef 
 Dim strFilter As String 
 Dim dbsTemp As Database 
 
 ' Open the partial replica in exclusive mode. 
 Set dbsTemp = OpenDatabase("F:\SALES\FY96CA.MDB", True) 
 
 With dbsTemp 
 Set tdfCustomers = .TableDefs("Customers") 
 
 ' Synchronize with full replica 
 ' before setting replica filter. 
 .Synchronize "C:\SALES\FY96.MDB" 
 
 strFilter = "Region = 'CA'" 
 tdfCustomers.ReplicaFilter = strFilter 
 
 ' Populate records from the full replica. 
 .PopulatePartial "C:\SALES\FY96.MDB" 
 
 .Close 
 End With 
 
End Sub
```

