
# Application.HinstancePtr Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns a handle to the instance of Excel represented by the specified  ** [Application](19b73597-5cf9-4f56-8227-b5211f657f6f.md)** object. Read-only **Variant**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **HinstancePtr**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This property returns a correct handle in both the 32- and 64-bit versions of Excel. It extends the functionality of the  ** [Hinstance](4551a0a2-0730-1288-7a13-b2beff2a2fca.md)** property of the **Application** object, which only works correctly in the 32-bit version of Excel.

The ideal data type to use with this property is the  ** [LongPtr](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/10ee4c07-b686-5b86-5cea-250a9218e7ba%28Office.15%29.aspx)** data type. Assigning the value returned by this property to a **LongPtr** variable will work as expected in both 32- and 64-bit versions of Excel. The property is defined as **Variant** for internal implementation reasons. However, it always returns a 32-bit value on 32-bit systems and a 64-bit value on 64-bit systems.

This property only works starting with Excel, and is only required with the 64-bit version of Excel. If you must write code that will also work with earlier versions of Excel, in order to avoid compilation errors, read this property under an  `#if Win64` conditional compilation directive, and use the **Hinstance** property under the `#else` directive.

Note that this property works fine in both 32- and 64-bit environments starting with Excel. Therefore, if your code is intended to be used only with Excel or later, either 32- or 64-bit, it can read this property without conditional compilation.

For more information about how to use VBA in 64-bit environments, see  [64-Bit Visual Basic for Applications Overview](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/a44e016f-1019-300e-5150-916ff32f70c1%28Office.15%29.aspx).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

In this example, a message box displays the 

Excel instance handle to the user.




```
Sub CheckHinstance() 
    MsgBox Application.HinstancePtr 
End Sub 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](19b73597-5cf9-4f56-8227-b5211f657f6f.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](4cb9ca42-8d07-cc9c-2d80-4eb9a5921e1e.md)
