
# RunDataMacro Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Setting](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)
[About the Contributors](#AboutContributors)


You can use the  **RunDataMacro** action to run a named data macro.

## Setting
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

The  **RunDataMacro** action has the following argument.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| _Name_|The name of the data macro to run.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use the  **RunDataMacro** action in macros, named data macros, and the following macro events: **[After Delete Macro Event](ecf9e6d4-345f-9b78-eb36-bd526e5df09b.md)**, **[After Insert Macro Event](78013896-ee07-6979-96f7-fa0f3490419e.md)** and **[After Update Macro Event](5213793b-8301-0f18-3a12-4e3764c879ac.md)**.

The name of the data macro must include the table to which it is attached (for example,  **Comments.AddComment**, not just  **AddComment**).

When you select the data macro that you want to run in the macro designer, Access determines if the data macro requires parameters. If the data macro requires parameters, text boxes appear where you can type in the arguments.

When you run a macro that contains the  **RunDataMacro** action and it reaches the **RunDataMacro** action, Access runs the called data macro. When the called data macro has finished, Access returns to the original macro and runs the next action.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example shows how to pass a parameter to a named data macro. The  **dmGetCurrentServiceRequest** data macro of the **tblServiceRequests** table is called by using the **RunDataMacro** action. When the **dmGetCurrentServiceRequest** is finished, the **CurrentServiceRequest** variable returned form the data macro is written to the **txtCurrentSR text** box.

 **Sample code provided by:** The[Microsoft Access 2010 Programmer's Reference](http://www.wrox.com/WileyCDA/WroxTitle/Access-2010-Programmer-s-Reference.productCd-0470591668.mdl)




```text
RunDataMacro
    Macro Name tblServiceRequests.dmGetCurrentServiceRequest

Parameters
    prmAssignedTo =[ID]

SetProperty
    Control Name txtCurrentSR
    Property Value
    Value =[ReturnVars]![CurrentServiceRequest]
```


## About the Contributors
<a name="AboutContributors"> </a>

Wrox Press is driven by the Programmer to Programmer philosophy. Wrox books are written by programmers for programmers, and the Wrox brand means authoritative solutions to real-world programming problems. 

