
# WillMove and MoveComplete Events (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



The  **WillMove** event is called before a pending operation changes the current position in the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md). The  **MoveComplete** event is called after the current position in the **Recordset** changes.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **WillMove** _adReason_, _adStatus_, _pRecordset_

 **MoveComplete** _adReason_, _pError_, _adStatus_, _pRecordset_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _adReason_
    
- An [EventReasonEnum](0639928e-d0ef-3db3-887e-f3da03913bc7.md) value that specifies the reason for this event. Its value can be **adRsnMoveFirst**, **adRsnMoveLast**, **adRsnMoveNext**, **adRsnMovePrevious**, **adRsnMove**, or **adRsnRequery**.
    
-  _pError_
    
- An [Error](97e478bf-8b25-03a8-9358-abba5069cba3.md) object. It describes the error that occurred if the value of _adStatus_ is **adStatusErrorsOccurred**; otherwise it is not set.
    
-  _adStatus_
    
- [EventStatusEnum](ae1711bc-2af5-04fd-7d8c-222d8afc9d3d.md)
    
    When  **WillMove** is called, this parameter is set to **adStatusOK** if the operation that caused the event was successful. It is set to **adStatusCantDeny** if this event cannot request cancellation of the pending operation.
    
    When  **MoveComplete** is called, this parameter is set to **adStatusOK** if the operation that caused the event was successful, or to **adStatusErrorsOccurred** if the operation failed.
    
    Before  **WillMove** returns, set this parameter to **adStatusCancel** to request cancellation of the pending operation or set this parameter to adStatusUnwantedEvent to prevent subsequent notications.
    
    Before  **MoveComplete** returns, set this parameter to **adStatusUnwantedEvent** to prevent subsequent notifications.
    
-  _pRecordset_
    
- A [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object. The **Recordset** for which this event occurred.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

A  **WillMove** or **MoveComplete** event may occur due to the following **Recordset** operations:[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md), [Move](1f858654-5fa3-273d-7cdc-574c5f09a420.md), [MoveFirst](d04ce41c-77c9-df42-115a-65c50a38518a.md), [MoveLast](d04ce41c-77c9-df42-115a-65c50a38518a.md), [MoveNext](d04ce41c-77c9-df42-115a-65c50a38518a.md), [MovePrevious](d04ce41c-77c9-df42-115a-65c50a38518a.md), [AddNew](bae09be0-5707-4f38-9c74-0acd0f29dbac.md), and [Requery](1062d907-979f-020a-b2ed-94e11c0e7d08.md). These events may occur because of the following properties: [Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md), [Index](4cc00521-dcb4-19b2-2174-6e0e9bd42e62.md), [Bookmark](101b2ce1-21d8-aa79-e530-20f9d1c73fc8.md), [AbsolutePage](b6e5daac-cc21-0aa6-9119-a973595762bb.md), and [AbsolutePosition](500be001-9fa1-177b-f19d-acf003a0cdc2.md). These events also occur if a child  **Recordset** has **Recordset** events connected and the parent **Recordset** is moved.

You must set the  **adStatus** parameter to **adStatusUnwantedEvent** for each possible adReason value in order to completely stop event notification for any event that includes an adReason parameter.

