
# CommandButton.ShortcutMenuBar Property (Access)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **ShortcutMenuBar** property to specify the shortcut menu that will appear when you right-click on the specified object. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ShortcutMenuBar**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **CommandButton** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>


 **Note**  The  **ShortcutMenuBar** property applies only to controls on a form, not controls on a report.

You can also use the  **ShortcutMenuBar** property to specify the menu bar macro that will be used to display a shortcut menu for a datasheet, form, form control, or report.

To display the built-in shortcut menu for a database, form, form control, or report by using a macro or Visual Basic, set the property to a zero-length string (" ").

When used with the  ** [Application](aefb0713-97e6-e2c7-e530-8fd2e1316a55.md)**object, the  **ShortcutMenuBar** property enables you to display a custom shortcut menu as a global shortcut menu. However, if you've set the **ShortcutMenuBar** property for a form, form control, or report in the database, the custom shortcut menu of that object will be displayed in place of the database's global shortcut menu. You can display a different custom shortcut menu for a specific form, form control, or report by setting its **ShortcutMenuBar** property to a different shortcut menu. When the form, form control, or report has the focus, the custom shortcut menu for that object is displayed when the user clicks the right mouse button; otherwise, the global shortcut menu for the database is displayed.

Shortcut menus aren't available to any object if the  **AllowShortcutMenus**property is set to  **False**.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the "Suppliers_Toolbar" as the custom shortcut menu to display when the user clicks the right mouse button on the "Suppliers" form.


```
Forms("Suppliers").ShortcutMenuBar = "Suppliers_Toolbar"
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [CommandButton Object](25e7c0b7-03c1-dffe-8f52-4ec59739f6b8.md)
#### Other resources


 [CommandButton Object Members](9e1c10e6-0d03-78fd-ac9d-3f086ce1e0f5.md)
