
# Value Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the value assigned to a [Field](1dbd535e-48ad-a5c8-a1b2-6776c1e3e19d.md), [Parameter](7577598e-3d0c-30c6-5f24-1cfe98791798.md), or [Property](eec318fd-f5ed-d9ef-9830-848439a8914d.md) object.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **Variant** value that indicates the value of the object. Default value depends on the[Type](14d99172-2145-05ae-620b-459ba097f05c.md) property.


## Remarks

Use the  **Value** property to set or return data from **Field** objects, to set or return parameter values with **Parameter** objects, or to set or return property settings with **Property** objects. Whether the **Value** property is read/write or read-only depends upon numerous factors — see the respective object topics for more information.

ADO allows setting and returning long binary data with the  **Value** property.


 **Note**  For  **Parameter** objects, ADO reads the **Value** property only once from the provider. If a command contains a **Parameter** whose **Value** property is empty, and you create a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) from the command, ensure that you first close the **Recordset** before retrieving the **Value** property. Otherwise, for some providers, the **Value** property may be empty, and won't contain the correct value.

For new  **Field** objects that have been appended to the[Fields](029aa738-8726-54a6-1813-b152813948bc.md) collection of a[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) object, the **Value** property must be set before any other **Field** properties can be specified. First, a specific value for the **Value** property must have been assigned and[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) on the **Fields** collection called. Then, other properties such as[Type](14d99172-2145-05ae-620b-459ba097f05c.md) or[Attributes](4cc1f036-606e-7d4b-d270-af374e9d99fa.md) can be accessed.

