
# TextRange2.Paragraphs Property (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Gets a  **TextRange2** object that represents the specified subset of text paragraphs. Read-only.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Paragraphs**( **_Start_**,  **_Length_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **TextRange2** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Start|Optional| **Long**|The first paragraph in the returned range.|
|Length|Optional| **Long**|The number of paragraphs to be returned.|

### Return Value

TextRange2


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If both  **Start** and **Length** are omitted, the returned range starts with the first paragraph and ends with the last paragraph in the specified range.

If  **Start** is specified but **Length** is omitted, the returned range contains one paragraph.

If  **Length** is specified but **Start** is omitted, the returned range starts with the first paragraph in the specified range.

If  **Start** is greater than the number of paragraphs in the specified text, the returned range starts with the last paragraph in the specified range.

If  **Length** is greater than the number of paragraphs from the specified starting paragraph to the end of the text, the returned range contains all those paragraphs.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example formats as italic the first two lines of the second paragraph in shape two on slide one in the active PowerPoint presentation.


```
Application.ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes(2) _ 
 .TextFrame.TextRange2.Paragraphs(2) _ 
 .Lines(1, 2).Font.Italic = True
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [TextRange2 Object](a6a59c9b-9b64-c1e2-2e98-a1f99025c877.md)
#### Other resources


 [TextRange2 Object Members](26daffff-b9ef-fd94-f5b7-ed3a09840cb6.md)
