
# IAssistance.ShowHelp Method (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Displays the help topic specified by its ID in the Office Help Viewer or, for help topics that ship with Office, in the Help window of the current Office application.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ShowHelp**( **_HelpId_**,  **_Scope_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **IAssistance** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|HelpId|Optional| **String**|The ID of the help topic.|
|Scope|Optional| **String**|The namespace registered within the host application.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **Assistance** property returns an **IAssistance** object. The **IAssistance** object exposes methods that allow developers to display help topics in the Office Help Viewer or to display help topics that ship with Office in the Help window of the host application. Developers either pass specific Help IDs to the help system or pass specific search queries. Help IDs have to be explicitly added to the Help file in order for the Help ID to return the help topic.

The following scopes are available within the Microsoft Office applications. By default, the scope is set to the current application's namespace if a  **Null** string ("") is passed as a parameter.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

In the first line in the following example, the client help viewer will display the help topic associated with the ID "xlmain11.chm60407" in the "Excel" namespace. In the second line, the client viewer will remain open and display the help topic associated with the ID "65879", in the "Excel Developer" namespace. 


```
Sub DisplayHelpTopic() 
 Application.Assistance.ShowHelp "xlmain11.chm60407", "" 
 Application.Assistance.ShowHelp "vbaxl10.chm65879", "DEV" 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [IAssistance Object](c8327d45-a6a2-dc4c-67f0-d02598eb60ba.md)
#### Other resources


 [IAssistance Object Members](1f5ae2ce-e24a-4377-6591-86504cba749f.md)
