
# Sync.PutUpdate Method (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection1)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection2)
 [Example](#sectionSection3)


Updates the server copy of the shared document with the local copy.


 **Note**  Beginning with Microsoft Office 2010, this object or member has been deprecated and should not be used.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _expression_. **PutUpdate**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Sync** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The  **PutUpdate** method can encounter a conflict condition if the client is unaware of recent changes to the server copy of the shared document. Call the **GetUpdate** method before calling **PutUpdate** to refresh the status of the server copy and to detect a possible conflict.

The  **PutUpdate** method raises a run-time error if the local document has unsaved changes.

Not all document synchronization problems raise trappable run-time errors. After performing an operation using the  **Sync** object, it's a good idea to check the **Status** property; if the **Status** property is **msoSyncStatusError**, check the  **ErrorType** property for additional information on the type of error that has occurred.

In many circumstances, the best way to resolve an error condition is to call the  **GetUpdate** method. For example, if a call to **PutUpdate** results in an error condition, then a call to **GetUpdate** will reset the status to **msoSyncStatusLocalChanges**.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The following example updates the server copy of the document from the local copy using the PutUpdate method if the local copy has been edited.


```
    Dim objSync As Office.Sync 
    Dim strStatus As String 
    Set objSync = ActiveDocument.Sync 
    If objSync.Status = msoSyncStatusLocalChanges Then 
        objSync.PutUpdate 
        strStatus = "Local changes saved to server." 
        MsgBox strStatus, vbInformation + vbOKOnly, "Sync Information" 
    End If 
    Set objSync = Nothing 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Sync Object](1cb049a0-a803-969a-7923-15ddb8da8f3b.md)
#### Other resources


 [Sync Object Members](748726bd-83de-425a-5af8-177c34e3a013.md)
