
# Sync.OpenVersion Method (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection1)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection2)
 [Example](#sectionSection3)


Opens a different version of the shared document alongside the currently open local version.


 **Note**  Beginning with Microsoft Office 2010, this object or member has been deprecated and should not be used.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _expression_. **OpenVersion**( **_SyncVersionType_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Sync** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|SyncVersionType|Required| **MsoSyncVersionType**| Represents the type of version.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Use the  **OpenVersion** method to open the last version viewed ( **msoSyncVersionLastViewed**) or the server copy ( **msoSyncVersionServer**) of the shared document alongside the currently open local version.

 ** The msoSyncVersionLastViewed** option displays the copy of the document that is created whenever the user overwrites the local copy with the server copy. For example, if you call the **ResolveConflict** method with the **msoSyncConflictServerWins** option, then your local changes are saved and can be viewed by calling ** OpenVersion(msoSyncVersionLastViewed)**.

Not all document synchronization problems raise trappable run-time errors. After performing an operation using the  **Sync** object, it's a good idea to check the **Status** property; if the **Status** property is **msoSyncStatusError**, check the  **ErrorType** property for additional information on the type of error that has occurred.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The following example prompts the user to open the server copy of the shared document alongside the currently open local version.


```
    Dim objSync As Office.Sync 
    Dim lngChoice As VbMsgBoxResult 
    Set objSync = ActiveDocument.Sync 
    lngChoice = MsgBox("View server copy?", _ 
        vbQuestion + vbOKCancel, "Open Server Version?") 
    If lngChoice = vbOK Then 
        objSync.OpenVersion msoSyncVersionServer 
    End If 
    Set objSync = Nothing 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Sync Object](1cb049a0-a803-969a-7923-15ddb8da8f3b.md)
#### Other resources


 [Sync Object Members](748726bd-83de-425a-5af8-177c34e3a013.md)
