
# SharedWorkspaceMember.Creator Property (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Gets a 32-bit integer that indicates the application in which the  **SharedWorkspaceMember** object was created. Read-only.

 **Note**  Beginning with Microsoft Office 2010, this object or member has been deprecated and should not be used.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **Creator**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **SharedWorkspaceMember** object.


### Return Value

Long


## Remarks

As an example, if the object was created in Microsoft Word, this property returns 1297307460, which represents the string "MSWD"; in Microsoft Excel, this property returns 1480803660. This value can also be represented by the constant wdCreatorCode in Word, or xlCreatorCode in Excel. The  **Creator** property was primarily designed to be used on the Macintosh, where each application has a four-character creator code. For example, Microsoft Word has the creator code MSWD. For additional information about this property, consult the language reference Help included with Microsoft Office Macintosh Edition.

The  **Creator** property always returns the numeric identifier for the active application, just as the **Application** property always returns the name of the active applicatin in string form. Use the **CreatedBy** property of the **SharedWorkspaceFile**,  **SharedWorkspaceFolder**,  **SharedWorkspaceLink**, and  **SharedWorkspaceTask** objects to return the name of the individual who created those objects. Use document properties to return information about the authors of Office documents.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [SharedWorkspaceMember Object](4d5ec7d9-b7f2-cdcf-5db2-7429b7a08ed9.md)
#### Other resources


 [SharedWorkspaceMember Object Members](d2519ac4-a9a3-0480-c7c3-dbd98c514692.md)
