
# IRibbonExtensibility.GetCustomUI Method (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Loads the XML markup, either from an XML customization file or from XML markup embedded in the procedure, that customizes the Ribbon user interface.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **GetCustomUI**( **_RibbonID_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **IRibbonExtensibility** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|RibbonID|Required| **String**|The ID for the RibbonX UI. |

### Return Value

String


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

For Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Access, there is only one ID for each application. Outlook uses ribbon extensibility to customize not only the ribbon in an inspector, but also the ribbon in an explorer, in various context menus, in contextual tabs in a ribbon, and in the Microsoft Office Backstage view. In each of these scenarios, the developer specifies the custom UI in an XML file that is loaded when Office calls  **GetCustomUI** with a specific ribbon ID.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

In the following example, written in C#, the  **IRibbonExtensibility** interface is specified in the class definition. The example then implements the interfaces's only method, **GetCustomUI**. The method creates an instance of a  **SteamReader** object that reads in the customization markup in an external XML file.


```
public class Connect : Object, Extensibility.IDTExtensibility2, IRibbonExtensibility 
... 
public string GetCustomUI(string RibbonID) 
{ 
 StreamReader customUIReader = new System.IO.StreamReader("C:\\RibbonXSampleCS\\customUI.xml"); 
 string customUIData = customUIReader.ReadToEnd(); 
 return customUIData; 
} 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [IRibbonExtensibility Object](b27a7576-b6f5-031e-e307-78ef5f8507e0.md)
#### Other resources


 [IRibbonExtensibility Object Members](8d8ecf4f-5502-1876-46af-381078c7710e.md)
