
# SharedWorkspaceTask.Status Property (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection1)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection2)
 [Example](#sectionSection3)


Gets or sets the status of the specified shared workspace task. Read/write .


 **Note**  Beginning with Microsoft Office 2010, this object or member has been deprecated and should not be used.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _expression_. **Status**

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents a  ** [SharedWorkspaceTask](fbd82b03-53fa-12ff-9fb2-07bef012dde8.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The shared workspace task schema on the server can be customized. Customization of the schema may affect the task status enumeration when the  **Add** or **Save** method is called. **Status** property values are mapped as follows:




- Downloaded values 1 through 5 are mapped to  **msoSharedWorkspaceTaskStatus** enumeration values 1 through 5. Schema values beyond 5 are mapped to enumeration value 1 ( **msoSharedWorkspaceTaskStatusInProgress**).
    
- Uploaded enumeration values 1 through 5 are mapped to schema values 1 through 5. If a user-specified value does not map to any value defined in the schema, the user-specified value is silently ignored and the  **Status** property is not updated on the server.
    



## Example
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The following example displays a list of all tasks in the current shared workspace whose status is not set to Complete.


```
    Dim swsTask As Office.SharedWorkspaceTask 
    Dim strTaskStatus As String 
    For Each swsTask In ActiveWorkbook.SharedWorkspace.Tasks 
        If swsTask.Status <> msoSharedWorkspaceTaskStatusCompleted Then 
            strTaskStatus = strTaskStatus &amp; swsTask.Title &amp; vbCrLf 
        End If 
    Next 
    MsgBox "The following tasks have not been completed:" &amp; vbCrLf &amp; _ 
        strTaskStatus, vbInformation + vbOKOnly, "Incomplete Tasks" 
    Set swsTask = Nothing 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [SharedWorkspaceTask Object](fbd82b03-53fa-12ff-9fb2-07bef012dde8.md)
#### Other resources


 [SharedWorkspaceTask Object Members](5b5589d1-f907-7357-f930-eede569d2021.md)
