
# SharedWorkspaceTasks.Creator Property (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection1)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection2)
 [Example](#sectionSection3)


Gets a 32-bit integer that indicates the application in which the  **SharedWorkspaceTasks** object was created. Read-only.


 **Note**  Beginning with Microsoft Office 2010, this object or member has been deprecated and should not be used.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _expression_. **Creator**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **SharedWorkspaceTasks** object.


### Return Value

Long


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

As an example, if the object was created in Microsoft Word, this property returns 1297307460, which represents the string "MSWD"; in Microsoft Excel, this property returns 1480803660. This value can also be represented by the constant wdCreatorCode in Word, or xlCreatorCode in Excel. The  **Creator** property was primarily designed to be used on the Macintosh, where each application has a four-character creator code. For example, Microsoft Word has the creator code MSWD. For additional information about this property, consult the language reference Help included with Microsoft Office Macintosh Edition.

The  **Creator** property always returns the numeric identifier for the active application, just as the **Application** property always returns the name of the active applicatin in string form. Use the **CreatedBy** property of the **SharedWorkspaceTask** object to return the name of the individual who created the objects. Use document properties to return information about the authors of Office documents.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

This example displays a message about the creator of "myObject" variable.


```
Set myObject = ActiveDocument 
If myObject.Creator = wdCreatorCode Then 
    MsgBox "This is a Microsoft Word object" 
Else 
    MsgBox "This is not a Microsoft Word object" 
End If 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [SharedWorkspaceTasks Object](de26341f-44d1-131e-1dbe-e31f3f68e312.md)
#### Other resources


 [SharedWorkspaceTasks Object Members](6323d5c3-b1ed-af53-25e6-e97b22554699.md)
