
# SmartDocument.PickSolution Method (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Displays a dialog box that allows the user to choose an available XML expansion pack to attach to the active document in Microsoft Word or a workbook in Microsoft Excel.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **PickSolution**( **_ConsiderAllSchemas_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **SmartDocument** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ConsiderAllSchemas|Optional| **Boolean**| **True** displays all available XML expansion packs installed on the user's computer. **False** displays only XML expansion packs applicable to the active document. Default value is **False**.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use the  **PickSolution** method to allow the user to select an XML expansion pack from a list. The schema attached to the active document or workbook determines which XML expansion packs are applicable.

The  **PickSolution** method does not return a value to indicate whether the user selected an XML expansion pack or clicked **Cancel** in the dialog box. Check the **SolutionID** property after calling **PickSolution** to determine whether an XML expansion pack has been attached.

If the smart document developer has failed to specify "targetApplication" in the XML expansion pack manifest file, the list displayed by  **PickSolution** may include XML expansion packs that are not targeted to the active application; for example, an Excel user may see XML expansion packs targeted exclusively to Word. In these circumstances, the user may select an XML expansion pack that is not appropriate for the active application.

For more information on smart documents or XML expansion packs for smart documents, please see the Smart Document Software Development Kit (SDK) on the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) Web site.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example checks the  **SolutionID** property to determine whether the active Microsoft Word document already has an attached XML expansion pack; if not, it displays a dialog box which allows the user to choose an available XML expansion pack. It then displays the properties of the smart document.


```
 Dim objSmartDoc As Office.SmartDocument 
 Dim strSmartDocInfo As String 
 Set objSmartDoc = ActiveDocument.SmartDocument 
 If objSmartDoc.SolutionID = "None" Or objSmartDoc.SolutionID = "" Then 
 objSmartDoc.PickSolution True 
 End If 
 If objSmartDoc.SolutionID > "None" And objSmartDoc.SolutionID > "" Then 
 strSmartDocInfo = "SolutionID: " &amp; objSmartDoc.SolutionID &amp; vbCrLf &amp; _ 
 "SolutionURL: " &amp; objSmartDoc.SolutionURL 
 MsgBox strSmartDocInfo, vbInformation + vbOKOnly, "Smart Doc Properties" 
 Else 
 MsgBox "The user clicked Cancel." 
 End If 
 Set objSmartDoc = Nothing 
 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [SmartDocument Object](b56a86eb-a031-d50b-905e-ef8b91914d61.md)
#### Other resources


 [SmartDocument Object Members](980de42d-6992-6107-a3fb-33e8c78da202.md)
