
# SharedWorkspaceTask Object (Office)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **SharedWorkspaceTask** object represents a task in a shared document workspace. Member of the **SharedWorkspaceTasks** collection.

 **Note**  Beginning with Microsoft Office 2010, this object or member has been deprecated and should not be used.


## Remarks

Use the  **SharedWorkspaceTask** object to manage tasks assigned to the members who are collaborating on the documents in the shared workspace.

Use the  **Item**( _index_) property of the  **SharedWorkspaceTasks** collection to return a specific **SharedWorkspaceTask** object.

Use the  **Title** property to set the text of the task that appears on the **Tasks** tab of the **Shared Workspace** task pane and on the shared workspace Web page. Use the **Description** property to supply additional information about the task.

Assign the task to a member of the workspace using the  **AssignedTo** property and the member's domain user name. Specify a due date for the task using the **DueDate** property.

Use the enumerations for task  **Priority** and **Status** to indicate the relative importance of the task and to update the task's status.

Use the  **Save** method to upload changes to the server after you modify properties of the **SharedWorkspaceTask** object.

Use the  **CreatedBy**,  **CreatedDate**,  **ModifiedBy**, and  **ModifiedDate** properties to return information about the history of each task.


## Example

The following example returns the number of tasks in the shared workspace and information about each task.


```
    Dim swsTask As Office.SharedWorkspaceTask 
    Dim strTaskInfo As String 
    strTaskInfo = "The shared workspace contains " &amp; _ 
    ActiveWorkbook.SharedWorkspace.Tasks.Count &amp; " Task(s)." &amp; vbCrLf 
    For Each swsTask In ActiveWorkbook.SharedWorkspace.Tasks 
        strTaskInfo = strTaskInfo &amp; swsTask.Title &amp; vbCrLf &amp; _ 
            " - Description: " &amp; swsTask.Description &amp; vbCrLf &amp; _ 
            " - Assigned to: " &amp; swsTask.AssignedTo &amp; vbCrLf &amp; _ 
            " - Due date: " &amp; swsTask.DueDate &amp; vbCrLf &amp; _ 
            " - Priority: " &amp; swsTask.Priority &amp; vbCrLf &amp; _ 
            " - Status: " &amp; swsTask.Status &amp; vbCrLf 
    Next 
    MsgBox strTaskInfo, vbInformation + vbOKOnly, _ 
        "Tasks in Shared Workspace" 
    Set swsTask = Nothing 

```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Object Model Reference](499c789a-aba2-0fad-649a-0ea964cd3b5e.md)
#### Other resources


 [SharedWorkspaceTask Object Members](5b5589d1-f907-7357-f930-eede569d2021.md)
