
# ShapeRange Object (Project)
Represents a shape range, which is a collection of one or more shapes in a report.

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015


## Remarks

Project uses the same Office Art infrastructure that other Office applications use, and adapts Office Art to reports, tables, and charts that can use fields in the active project. However, Project does not implement all  **ShapeRange** operations. For example, Project does not support automatic alignment, distribution, grouping, or merging of shapes in a shape range.

A shape range can contain a single shape or all the shapes in the report. You can include whichever shapes you want to construct a shape range. For example, you can construct a  **ShapeRange** collection that contains the first three shapes in a report, all the shapes in a report, or only the triangle shapes.

Most operations that you can do with a  **Shape** object, you can also do with a **ShapeRange** object that contains only one shape. Some operations, when performed on a **ShapeRange** object that contains more than one shape, shapes of different types, or a shape that is not fully supported in Project, can cause an error. For example, if a shape range contains a rectangle and a chart, and you try to set the **Fill** property, the statement fails because a chart does not implement the **Fill** property. In other cases, for example if you use the **Rotation** property on a shape range that contains a chart and a rectangle, Project rotates the rectangle but silently ignores the chart.


## Examples

You can return a set of shapes that are specified by the index number or by the shape name. Use  `Shapes.Range(index)`, where index is an array of index numbers or names. For example, both of the following statements are valid:


```
Set myRange1 = theReport.Shapes.Range(Array(1, 2))
Set myRange2 = theReport.Shapes.Range(Array("Textbox 1", "Textbox 2"))
```

To create a  **ShapeRange** object that contains all of the shapes in the report, use a statement such as the following:




```
Set allShapes = theReport.Shapes.Range(Array(1, theReport.Shapes.Count))
```

To create a  **ShapeRange** object with a single member of the **Shapes** collection, you can use statements such as the following:




```
Set myRange3 = theReport.Shapes.Range(2)
Set myRange4 = theReport.Shapes.Range("Rectangle 2")
```

To perform an operation on a single shape in a  **ShapeRange** collection, you can use statements such as the following:




```
myRange1(2).Fill.ForeColor.RGB = RGB(120, 120, 80)
myRange1("Textbox 2").Fill.ForeColor.RGB = RGB(120, 120, 80)
```

Alternately, you can perform an operation directly on a  **Shape** object, without using a shape range.




```
theReport.Shapes("Big rectangle").Fill.ForeColor.RGB = RGB(120, 120, 80)
```


## See also


#### Other resources


 [Shapes Object](6e42040c-dd5a-de4c-afa8-f9e33d1e5054.md)
 [Shape Object](d2b32bcd-5595-a4a7-9772-feb25fd0103a.md)
