
# StartDriver.EffectiveDateDifference Property (Project)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Gets the duration between two dates in minutes, using the effective calendar for a manually scheduled task. Read-only  **Long**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **EffectiveDateDifference**( **_StartDate_**,  **_FinishDate_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **StartDriver** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|StartDate|Required| **Variant**|Arbitrary start date and time, for example, "7/10/2010" or "7/10/2010 2:00:00 PM".|
|FinishDate|Required| **Variant**|Arbitrary finish date and time.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **EffectiveDateDifference** property uses the effective calendar for manually scheduled tasks, which allows tasks to start and finish on non-working times. The StartDate and FinishDate arguments can be arbitrary dates. The property and arguments do not affect the task dates.

You can use the  ** [EffectiveDateSubtract](14529bd1-9029-d1bc-60a0-b7863cba4d6d.md)**,  ** [EffectiveDateAdd](5b2e2c6e-06b9-ebf4-efdb-4ca2e944b7ff.md)**, and  **EffectiveDateDifference** properties to calculate start and finish dates for manually scheduled tasks.

To calculate the date difference for an automatically scheduled task, where you can also specify the calendar, use the  ** [DateDifference](7f34e866-5cd3-971d-42ee-39e7768c1273.md)** method.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following statement returns the value 480, which shows that the finish date is 8 hours of working time after the start date. 


```
Debug.Print ActiveProject.Tasks(3).StartDriver.EffectiveDateDifference("7/1/2009 3:00:00 PM", "7/2/2009 3:00:00 PM")
```

The following statement returns the value -840, which shows that the finish date is 14 hours of working time before the start date. 




```
Debug.Print ActiveProject.Tasks(3).StartDriver.EffectiveDateDifference("7/1/2009 3:00:00 PM", "6/30/2009 8:00:00 AM")
```

