
# Understanding the Lifetime of Variables

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The time during which a  [variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) retains its value is known as its lifetime. The value of a variable may change over its lifetime, but it retains some value. When a variable loses [scope](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), it no longer has a value.

When a  [procedure](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) begins running, all variables are initialized. A numeric variable is initialized to zero, a variable-length string is initialized to a zero-length string (""), and a fixed-length string is filled with the character represented by the ASCII character code 0, or **Chr(**0 **)**.  [Variant](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) variables are initialized to [Empty](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). Each element of a  [user-defined type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) variable is initialized as if it were a separate variable.

When you declare an  [object variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), space is reserved in memory, but its value is set to  **Nothing** until you assign an object reference to it using the **Set** statement.
If the value of a variable isn't changed during the running of your code, it retains its initialized value until it loses scope.
A  [procedure-level](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) variable declared with the **Dim** statement retains a value until the procedure is finished running. If the procedure calls other procedures, the variable retains its value while those procedures are running as well.
If a procedure-level variable is declared with the  **Static** keyword, the variable retains its value as long as code is running in any [module](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). When all code has finished running, the variable loses its scope and its value. Its lifetime is the same as a  [module-level](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) variable.
A module-level variable differs from a static variable. In a  [standard module](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) or a [class module](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), it retains its value until you stop running your code. In a class module, it retains its value as long as an instance of the class exists. Module-level variables consume memory resources until you reset their values, so use them only when necessary.
If you include the  **Static** keyword before a **Sub** or **Function** statement, the values of all the procedure-level variables in the procedure are preserved between calls.
