
# Add a Watch Expression

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A watch expression is an expression you define to be monitored in the  **Watch** window. When your application enters [break mode](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), the watch expressions you selected appear in the  **Watch** window where you can observe their values.

 **To add a watch expression**



1. On the  **Debug** menu, click **Add Watch**. The  **Add Watch** dialog box is displayed.
    
2. If an  [expression](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) is already selected in the **Code** window, it is automatically displayed in the **Expression** box. If no expression is displayed, enter the expression you want to evaluate. The expression can be a [variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), a  [property](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), a function call, or any other valid expression.
    
3. Select a  [module](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) or [procedure](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) context in the **Context** group to select the range for which the expression will be evaluated.
    
     **Note**  Select the narrowest  [scope](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) that fits your needs. Selecting all procedures or all modules can slow down module execution considerably, since the expression is evaluated after execution of each statement. If you select a specific procedure for a context, execution is affected only while the procedure is in the list of active procedure calls. Choose **Call Stack** from the **View** menu to display the list of active procedures.
4. Select an option in the  **Watch Type** group to define how the system responds to the watch expression.
    
    
    
      - To display the value of the watch expression, click  **Watch Expression**.
    
  - To stop execution if the expression evaluates to  **True**, click  **Break When Value is True**.
    
  - To stop execution when the value of the expression changes, click  **Break When Value Changes**.
    

    
    
5. Click  **OK**.
    

