
# Use z-order to layer controls

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

To place a control at the front or back of the  [z-order](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md):




1. Select the controls you want to reposition.
    
2. From the  **Format** menu, choose **Order**.
    
3. From the cascading menu, select  **Bring to Front** or **Send to Back**.
    

To adjust a control one position in the z-order:


1. Select the controls you want to reposition.
    
2. From the  **Format** menu, choose **Order**.
    
3. From the cascading menu, select  **Bring Forward** or **Send Backward**.
    


 **Note**  You can't Undo or Redo layering commands, such as  **Send to Back** or **Bring to Front**. For example, if you select an object and click  **Send Backward** on the shortcut menu, you won't be able to Undo or Redo that action.

The  **Bring to Front**,  **Bring Forward**,  **Send to Back**, and  **Send Backward** menu choices let you change the z-order of a control relative to other controls. If the form includes any **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage** controls, those controls automatically move as close as possible to the top of the stack. For example, applying **Send Backward** to a **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage** moves the control below other **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage** controls, but will not move it below any other type of control in the stack. Similarly, applying **Bring Forward** to a control other than a **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage** will move the control closer to to top of the stack, but will not move it above any **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage** in the stack.
Visually, this means that if a  **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage** and any other Microsoft Forms control are in the same location on a form, the **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage** will always appear on top of the other control. If a **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage** is in the same place as another **ListBox**,  **Frame**, or  **MultiPage**, the z-order of the controls determines which control appears on top of the other.
