
# This array is fixed or temporarily locked (Error 10)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Not all  [arrays](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) can be redimensioned. Even arrays specifically declared to be dynamic and arrays within **Variant** [variables](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) are sometimes locked temporarily. This error has the following causes and solutions:




- You tried to use  **ReDim** to change the number of elements of a fixed-size array . For example, in the following code, the fixed array `FixedArr` is received by `SomeArr` in the `NextOne` procedure, and then an attempt is made to resize `SomeArr`:
    
  ```
  Sub FirstOne 
Dim FixedArr(25) As Integer    ' Create a fixed-size array and 
NextOne FixedArr()    ' pass it to another procedure. 
End Sub 
 
Sub NextOne(SomeArr() As Integer) 
ReDim SomeArr(35)        ' Error 10 occurs here. 
. . . 
End Sub 

  ```


     Make the original array dynamic rather than fixed by declaring it with **ReDim** (if the array is declared within a procedure), or by declaring it without specifying the number of elements (if the array is declared at [module level](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md)).
    
- You tried to redimension a module-level dynamic array, in which one element has been passed as an  [argument](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to a procedure. For example, in the following code, `ModArray` is a dynamic, module-level array whose forty-fifth element is being passed [by reference](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to the `Test` procedure:
    
  ```
  Dim ModArray () As Integer    ' Create a module-level dynamic array. 
. . . 
 
Sub AliasError() 
ReDim ModArray (1 To 73) As Integer 
Test ModArray (45)    ' Pass an element of the module-level  
' array to the Test procedure. 
End Sub 
 
Sub Test(SomeInt As Integer) 
ReDim ModArray (1 To 40) As Integer  ' Error occurs here. 
End Sub 

  ```


    There is no need to pass an element of the module-level array in this case, since it's visible within all procedures in the module. However, if an element is passed, the array is locked to prevent a deallocation of memory for the reference  [parameter](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) within the procedure, causing unpredictable behavior when the procedure returns.
    
- You attempted to assign a value to a  **Variant** variable containing an array, but the **Variant** is currently locked. For example, if your code uses a **For Each...Next** loop to iterate over a variant containing an array, the array is locked on entry into the loop, and then released at the termination of the loop:
    
  ```
  SomeArray = Array(9,8,7,6,5,4,3,2,1) 
 
For Each X In SomeArray 
SomeArray = 301    ' Causes error since array is locked. 
Next X 

  ```


     Use a **For...Next** rather than a **For Each...Next** loop to iterate. When an array is the object of a **For Each...Next** loop, you can read the array, but not write to it.
    

For additional information, select the item in question and press F1 (in Windows) or HELP (on the Macintosh).
