
# Variant Data Type

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The  **Variant** data type is the [data type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) for all [variables](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) that are not explicitly declared as some other type (using [statements](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) such as **Dim**,  **Private**,  **Public**, or  **Static**). The  **Variant** data type has no [type-declaration character](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).

A  **Variant** is a special data type that can contain any kind of data except fixed-length [String](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) data. ( **Variant** types now support [user-defined types](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).) A  **Variant** can also contain the special values [Empty](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md),  **Error**,  **Nothing**, and  [Null](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). You can determine how the data in a  **Variant** is treated using the **VarType** function or **TypeName** function.

Numeric data can be any integer or real number value ranging from -1.797693134862315E308 to -4.94066E-324 for negative values and from 4.94066E-324 to 1.797693134862315E308 for positive values. Generally, numeric  **Variant** data is maintained in its original data type within the **Variant**. For example, if you assign an  [Integer](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to a **Variant**, subsequent operations treat the  **Variant** as an **Integer**. However, if an arithmetic operation is performed on a  **Variant** containing a [Byte](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), an  **Integer**, a  [Long](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), or a  [Single](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), and the result exceeds the normal range for the original data type, the result is promoted within the  **Variant** to the next larger data type. A **Byte** is promoted to an **Integer**, an  **Integer** is promoted to a **Long**, and a  **Long** and a **Single** are promoted to a [Double](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). An error occurs when  **Variant** variables containing [Currency](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md),  [Decimal](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), and  **Double** values exceed their respective ranges.
You can use the  **Variant** data type in place of any data type to work with data in a more flexible way. If the contents of a **Variant** variable are digits, they may be either the string representation of the digits or their actual value, depending on the context. For example:



```
Dim MyVar As Variant 
MyVar = 98052 

```

In the preceding example,  `MyVar` contains a numeric representation — the actual value `98052`. Arithmetic operators work as expected on  **Variant** variables that contain numeric values or string data that can be interpreted as numbers. If you use the **+** operator to add contains a numeric representation — the actual value `98052`. Arithmetic operators work as expected on  **Variant** variables that contain numeric values or string data that can be interpreted as numbers. If you use the **+** operator to add `MyVar` to another **Variant** containing a number or to a variable of a [numeric type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), the result is an arithmetic sum.
The value  [Empty](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) denotes a **Variant** variable that hasn't been initialized (assigned an initial value). A **Variant** containing **Empty** is 0 if it is used in a numeric context and a zero-length string ("") if it is used in a string context.
Don't confuse  **Empty** with [Null](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).  **Null** indicates that the **Variant** variable intentionally contains no valid data.
In a  **Variant**,  **Error** is a special value used to indicate that an error condition has occurred in a [procedure](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). However, unlike for other kinds of errors, normal application-level error handling does not occur. This allows you, or the application itself, to take some alternative action based on the error value.  **Error** values are created by converting real numbers to error values using the **CVErr** function.


