
# Err Object

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015


Contains information about  [run-time errors](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).

## Remarks

The  [properties](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) of the **Err** object are set by the generator of an error — Visual Basic, an object, or the programmer.

The default property of the  **Err** object is **Number**. Because the default property can be represented by the object name  **Err**, earlier code written using the  **Err** function or **Err** statement doesn't have to be modified.

When a run-time error occurs, the properties of the  **Err** object are filled with information that uniquely identifies the error and information that can be used to handle it. To generate a run-time error in your code, use the **Raise** method.

The  **Err** object's properties are reset to zero or zero-length strings ("") after an **Exit Sub**,  **Exit Function**,  **Exit Property** or **Resume Next** statement within an error-handling routine. Using any form of the **Resume** statement outside of an error-handling routine will not reset the **Err** object's properties. The **Clear** method can be used to explicitly reset **Err**.

Use the  **Raise** method, rather than the **Error** statement, to generate run-time errors for system errors and class modules. Using the **Raise** method in other code depends on the richness of the information you want to return.

The  **Err** object is an intrinsic object with global [scope](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). There is no need to create an instance of it in your code.


## Example

This example uses the properties of the  **Err** object in constructing an error-message dialog box. Note that if you use the **Clear** method first, when you generate a Visual Basic error with the **Raise** method, Visual Basic's default values become the properties of the **Err** object.


```
Dim Msg
' If an error occurs, construct an error message
On Error Resume Next    ' Defer error handling.
Err.Clear
Err.Raise 6    ' Generate an "Overflow" error.
' Check for error, then show message.
If Err.Number <> 0 Then
    Msg = "Error # " &amp; Str(Err.Number) &amp; " was generated by " _
            &amp; Err.Source &amp; Chr(13) &amp; Err.Description
    MsgBox Msg, , "Error", Err.Helpfile, Err.HelpContext
End If

```

