
# CheckBox Control

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015


Displays the selection state of an item.
 **Remarks**
Use a  **CheckBox** to give the user a choice between two values such as _Yes_/ _No_,  _True_/ _False_, or  _On_/ _Off_. When the user selects a  **CheckBox**, it displays a special mark (such as an X) and its current setting is  _Yes_,  _True_, or  _On_; if the user does not select the  **CheckBox**, it is empty and its setting is  _No_,  _False_, or  _Off_. Depending on the value of the  **TripleState** property, a **CheckBox** can also have a [null](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) value.
If a  **CheckBox** is [bound](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md) to a [data source](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md), changing the setting changes the value of that source. A disabled  **CheckBox** shows the current value, but is dimmed and does not allow changes to the value from the user interface.
You can also use check boxes inside a group box to select one or more of a group of related items. For example, you can create an order form that contains a list of available items, with a  **CheckBox** preceding each item. The user can select a particular item or items by checking the corresponding **CheckBox**.
The default property of a  **CheckBox** is the **Value** property.
The default event of a  **CheckBox** is the Click event.

 **Note**  The  **ListBox** also lets you put a check mark by selected options. Depending on your application, you can use the **ListBox** instead of using a group of **CheckBox** controls.

