
# OptionButton Control

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015


Shows the selection status of one item in a  [group](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md) of choices.
 **Remarks**
Use an  **OptionButton** to show whether a single item in a group is selected. Note that each **OptionButton** in a **Frame** is mutually exclusive.
If an  **OptionButton** is [bound](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md) to a [data source](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md), the  **OptionButton** can show the value of that data source as either _Yes_/ _No_,  _True_/ _False_, or  _On_/ _Off_. If the user selects the  **OptionButton**, the current setting is  _Yes_,  _True_, or  _On_; if the user does not select the  **OptionButton**, the setting is  _No_,  _False_, or  _Off_. For example, an  **OptionButton** in an inventory-tracking application might show whether an item is discontinued. If the **OptionButton** is bound to a data source, then changing the settings changes the value of that data source. A disabled **OptionButton** is dimmed and does not show a value.
Depending on the value of the  **TripleState** property, an **OptionButton** can also have a [null](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) value.
You can also use an  **OptionButton** inside a group box to select one or more of a group of related items. For example, you can create an order form with a list of available items, with an **OptionButton** preceding each item. The user can select a particular item by checking the corresponding **OptionButton**.
The default property for an  **OptionButton** is the **Value** property.
The default event for an  **OptionButton** is the Click event.
