
# VBE Object (VBA Add-In Object Model)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015


The root object that contains all other  [objects](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) and [collections](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) represented in Visual Basic for Applications.
 **Remarks**
You can use the following collections to access the objects contained in the  **VBE** object:


- Use the  **VBProjects** collection to access the collection of [projects](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
    
- Use the  **AddIns** collection to access the collection of add-ins.
    
- Use the  **Windows** collection to access the collection of windows.
    
- Use the  **CodePanes** collection to access the collection of [code panes](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
    
- Use the  **CommandBars** collection to access the collection of command bars.
    

Use the  **Events** object to access properties that enable [add-ins](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to connect to all events in Visual Basic for Applications. The properties of the **Events** object return objects of the same type as the property name. For example, the **CommandBarEvents** property returns the **CommandBarEvents** object.
You can use the  **SelectedVBComponent** property to return the active component. The active component is the component that is being tracked in the [Project window](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). If the selected item in the  **Project** window isn't a component, **SelectedVBComponent** returns **Nothing**.

 **Note**  All objects in this object model have a  **VBE** property that points to the **VBE** object.

