
# Option Compare Statement

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Used at  [module level](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to declare the default comparison method to use when string data is compared.

 **Syntax**

 **Option Compare** { **Binary** | **Text** | **Database**}
 **Remarks**
If used, the  **Option** **Compare** statement must appear in a [module](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) before any [procedures](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
The  **Option Compare** statement specifies the [string comparison](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) method ( **Binary**,  **Text**, or  **Database**) for a module. If a module doesn't include an  **Option** **Compare** statement, the default text comparison method is **Binary**.
 **Option Compare Binary** results in string comparisons based on a [sort order](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) derived from the internal binary representations of the characters. In Microsoft Windows, sort order is determined by the code page. A typical binary sort order is shown in the following example:



```
A < B < E < Z < a < b < e < z < À < Ê < Ø < à < ê < ø 

```

 **Option Compare Text** results in string comparisons based on a case-insensitive text sort order determined by your system's [locale](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). When the same characters are sorted using  **Option Compare Text**, the following text sort order is produced:



```
(A=a) < ( À=à) < (B=b) < (E=e) < (Ê=ê) < (Z=z) < (Ø=ø) 

```

 **Option** **Compare** **Database** can only be used within Microsoft Access. This results in string comparisons based on the sort order determined by the locale ID of the database where the string comparisons occur.

## Example

This example uses the  **Option Compare** statement to set the default string comparison method. The **Option Compare** statement is used at the module level only.


```
' Set the string comparison method to Binary. 
Option compare Binary ' That is, "AAA" is less than "aaa". 
' Set the string comparison method to Text. 
Option compare Text ' That is, "AAA" is equal to "aaa". 

```

