
# Writing Visual Basic Statements

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Continuing a Statement over Multiple Lines](#sectionSection0)
 [Adding Comments](#sectionSection1)
 [Checking Syntax Errors](#sectionSection2)


A  [statement](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) in Visual Basic is a complete instruction. It can contain [keywords](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), operators,  [variables](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md),  [constants](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), and  [expressions](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). Each statement belongs to one of the following three categories:



- Declaration statements, which name a variable, constant, or procedure and can also specify a data type. [Writing Declaration Statements](9aaee08c-09d3-b70b-0d8f-9ca949fbd04a.md)
    
- Assignment statements, which assign a value or expression to a variable or constant. [Writing Assignment Statements](7699bec2-c5a2-6f35-3ec0-8aa7cefa622d.md)
    
- Executable statements, which initiate actions. These statements can execute a method or function, and they can loop or branch through blocks of code. Executable statements often contain mathematical or conditional operators. [Writing Executable Statements](822a0e4e-687d-9f38-7b70-352f3ee10da1.md)
    


## Continuing a Statement over Multiple Lines
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

A statement usually fits on one line, but you can continue a statement onto the next line using a  [line-continuation character](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). In the following example, the  **MsgBox** executable statement is continued over three lines:


```
Sub DemoBox() 'This procedure declares a string variable, 
 ' assigns it the value Claudia, and then displays 
 ' a concatenated message. 
 Dim myVar As String 
 myVar = "John" 
 MsgBox Prompt:="Hello " &amp; myVar, _ 
 Title:="Greeting Box", _ 
 Buttons:=vbExclamation 
End Sub 

```


## Adding Comments
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Comments can explain a procedure or a particular instruction to anyone reading your code. Visual Basic ignores comments when it runs your procedures. Comment lines begin with an apostrophe ( **'**) or with  **Rem** followed by a space, and can be added anywhere in a procedure. To add a comment to the same line as a statement, insert an apostrophe after the statement, followed by the comment. By default, comments are displayed as green text.


## Checking Syntax Errors
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

If you press ENTER after typing a line of code and the line is displayed in red (an error message may display as well), you must find out what's wrong with your statement, and then correct it.

