
# GroupName Property

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015


Creates a group of mutually exclusive  **OptionButton** controls.
 **Syntax**
 _object_. **GroupName** [= _String_]
The  **GroupName** property syntax has these parts:


|**Part**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| _object_|Required. A valid  **OptionButton**.|
| _String_|Optional. The name of the group that includes the  **OptionButton**. Use the same setting for all buttons in the group. The default setting is an empty string.|
 **Remarks**
To create a group of mutually exclusive  **OptionButton** controls, you can put the buttons in a **Frame** on your form, or you can use the **GroupName** property. **GroupName** is more efficient for the following reasons:


- You do not have to include a  **Frame** for each group. By not using a **Frame**, you reduce the number of controls on the form, and in turn, improve performance and reduce the size of the form.
    
- You have more design flexibility. If you use a  **Frame** to create the group, all the buttons must be inside the **Frame**. If you want more than one group, you must have one  **Frame** for each group. However, if you use **GroupName** to create the group, the group can include option buttons anywhere on the form. If you want more than one group, specify a unique name for each group; you can still place the individual controls anywhere on the form.
    
- You can create buttons with  [transparent](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md) backgrounds, which can improve the visual appearance of your form. The **Frame** is not a transparent control.
    

Regardless of which method you use to create the group of buttons, clicking one button in a group sets all other buttons in the same group to  **False**. All option buttons with the same  **GroupName** within a single [container](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) are mutually exclusive. You can use the same group name in two containers, but doing so creates two groups (one in each container) rather than one group that includes both containers.
For example, assume your form includes some option buttons and a  **MultiPage** that also includes option buttons. The option buttons on the **MultiPage** are one group and the buttons on the form are another group. The two groups do not affect each other. Changing the setting of a button on the **MultiPage** does not affect the buttons on the form.
