
# Ways to change the appearance of a control

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Microsoft Forms includes several properties that let you define the appearance of controls in your application:




-  **ForeColor**
    
-  **BackColor**,  **BackStyle**
    
-  **BorderColor**,  **BorderStyle**
    
-  **SpecialEffect**
    

 **ForeColor** determines the [foreground color](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md). The foreground color applies to any text associated with the control, such as the caption or the control's contents.
 **BackColor** and **BackStyle** apply to the control's background. The background is the area within the control's boundaries, such as the area surrounding the text in a control, but not the control's border. **BackColor** determines the [background color](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md).  **BackStyle** determines whether the background is [transparent](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md). A transparent control background is useful if your application design includes a picture as the main background and you want to see that picture through the control.
 **BorderColor**,  **BorderStyle**, and  **SpecialEffect** apply to the control's border. You can use **BorderStyle** or **SpecialEffect** to choose a type of border. Only one of these two properties can be used at a time. When you assign a value to one of these properties, the system sets the other property to **None**.  **SpecialEffect** lets you choose one of several border styles, but only lets you use [system colors](7ce2c60f-29fb-96e2-2516-73c99a6e7cff.md) for the border. **BorderStyle** supports only one border style, but lets you choose any color that is a valid setting for **BorderColor**.  **BorderColor** specifies the color of the control's border, and is only valid when you use **BorderStyle** to create the border.
