
# Option Private Statement

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

When used in host applications that allow references across multiple  [projects](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md),  **Option Private Module** prevents a [module's](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) contents from being referenced outside its project. In host applications that don't permit such references, for example, standalone versions of Visual Basic, **Option Private** has no effect.

 **Syntax**

 **Option Private Module**
 **Remarks**
If used, the  **Option** **Private** statement must appear at [module level](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), before any  [procedures](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
When a module contains  **Option Private Module**, the public parts, for example,  [variables](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md),  [objects](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), and  [user-defined types](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) declared at module level, are still available within the [project](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) containing the module, but they are not available to other applications or projects.

 **Note**   **Option Private** is only useful for [host applications](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) that support simultaneous loading of multiple projects and permit references between the loaded projects. For example, Microsoft Excel permits loading of multiple projects and **Option Private Module** can be used to restrict cross-project visibility. Although Visual Basic permits loading of multiple projects, references between projects are never permitted in Visual Basic.


## Example

This example demonstrates the  **Option Private** statement, which is used at module level to indicate that the entire module is private. With **Option Private Module**, module-level parts not declared  **Private** are available to other modules in the project, but not to other projects or applications.


```
Option private Module ' Indicates that module is private. 

```

