
# Variable required. Can't assign to this expression

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

This error typically occurs when you attempt to assign a value to something that can't accept the assignment. This error has the following causes and solutions:




- You attempted to use a  [numeric expression](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) as an [argument](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to the **Len** function.
    
    The  **Len** function doesn't accept a numeric expression, a numeric literal, or a binary numeric expression, but it does accept either a string or numeric variable, a [string expression](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), or a  [variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) of [user-defined type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
    
- You used a function call or an  [expression](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) as an argument to **Input #**,  **Let**,  **Get**, or  **Put**. For example, you may have used an argument that appears to be a valid reference to an  [array](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) variable, but instead is a call to a function of the same name.
    
     **Input #**,  **Let**,  **Get**, and  **Put** don't accept function calls as arguments.
    
- You attempted to assign a value to an  [identifier](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) previously declared as a [constant](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
    
    Choose another name for the identifier.
    
- You tried to use a nonvariable as a loop counter in a  **For...Next** construction. Use a variable as the counter.
    
- You tried to assign a value to a read-only  [property](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) or to an expression that consists of more than one variable (such as X + Y). An assignment places a value at a memory location. The specified expression must represent a single, writable location.
    
    Rewrite the assignment to a single variable name that can accept the data.
    
- You tried to use an undeclared variable that is defined as a constant in a  [type library](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
    
    Either use a different name for the variable, or declare it explicitly.
    

For additional information, select the item in question and press F1 (in Windows) or HELP (on the Macintosh).
