
# Type mismatch (Error 13)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Visual Basic is able to convert and coerce many values to accomplish  [data type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) assignments that weren't possible in earlier versions. However, this error can still occur and has the following causes and solutions:




- The  [variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) or [property](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) isn't of the correct type. For example, a variable that requires an integer value can't accept a string value unless the whole string can be recognized as an integer.
    
    Try to make assignments only between compatible  [data types](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). For example, an  **Integer** can always be assigned to a **Long**, a  **Single** can always be assigned to a **Double**, and any type (except a  [user-defined type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md)) can be assigned to a  **Variant**.
    
- An object was passed to a  [procedure](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) that is expecting a single property or value.
    
    Pass the appropriate single property or call a  [method](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) appropriate to the object.
    
- A  [module](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) or [project](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) name was used where an [expression](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) was expected, for example:
    
  ```
  Debug.Print MyModule 

  ```


    Specify an expression that can be displayed.
    
- You attempted to mix traditional Basic error handling with  **Variant** values having the **Error** subtype (10, **vbError**), for example:
    
  ```
  Error CVErr(n) 

  ```


     To regenerate an error, you must map it to an intrinsic Visual Basic or a user-defined error, and then generate that error.
    
- A  **CVErr** value can't be converted to **Date**. For example:
    
  ```
  MyVar = CDate(CVErr(9)) 

  ```


     Use a **Select Case** statement or some similar construct to map the return of **CVErr** to such a value.
    
- At  [run time](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), this error typically indicates that a  **Variant** used in an expression has an incorrect subtype, or a **Variant** containing an [array](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) appears in a **Print #** statement.
    
    To print arrays, create a loop that displays each element individually.
    

For additional information, select the item in question and press F1 (in Windows) or HELP (on the Macintosh).
