
# Passing Arguments Efficiently

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Excel | SharePoint | Windows Azure_

All  [arguments](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) are passed to [procedures](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) [by reference](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), unless you specify otherwise. This is efficient because all arguments passed by reference take the same amount of time to pass and the same amount of space (4 bytes) within a procedure regardless of the argument's  [data type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).

You can pass an argument  [by value](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) if you include the **ByVal** keyword in the procedure's declaration. Arguments passed by value consume from 2 - 16 bytes within the procedure, depending on the argument's data type. Larger data types take slightly longer to pass by value than smaller ones. Because of this, **String** and **Variant** data types generally should not be passed by value.
Passing an argument by value copies the original  [variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). Changes to the argument within the procedure aren't reflected back to the original variable. For example:



```
Function Factorial (ByVal MyVar As Integer) ' Function declaration. 
 MyVar = MyVar - 1 
 If MyVar = 0 Then 
 Factorial = 1 
 Exit Function 
 End If 
 Factorial = Factorial(MyVar) * (MyVar + 1) 
End Function 
 
' Call Factorial with a variable S. 
S = 5 
Print Factorial(S) ' Displays 120 (the factorial of 5) 
Print S ' Displays 5. 

```

Without including  **ByVal** in the function declaration, the preceding **Print** statements would display 1 and 0. This is because `MyVar` would then refer to variable would then refer to variable `S`, which is reduced by 1 until it equals 0.
Because  **ByVal** makes a copy of the argument, it allows you to pass a variant to the **Factorial** function above. You can't pass a variant by reference if the procedure that declares the argument is another data type.
