
# Let Statement

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Assigns the value of an  [expression](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to a [variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) or [property](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).

 **Syntax**

[ **Let**]  _varname_**=**_expression_
The  **Let** statement syntax has these parts:


|**Part**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| **Let**|Optional. Explicit use of the  **Let** [keyword](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) is a matter of style, but it is usually omitted.|
| _varname_|Required. Name of the variable or property; follows standard variable naming conventions.|
| _expression_|Required. Value assigned to the variable or property.|
 **Remarks**
A value expression can be assigned to a variable or property only if it is of a  [data type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) that is compatible with the variable. You can't assign [string expressions](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to numeric variables, and you can't assign [numeric expressions](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to string variables. If you do, an error occurs at [compile time](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
 [Variant](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) variables can be assigned either string or numeric expressions. However, the reverse is not always true. Any **Variant** except a [Null](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) can be assigned to a string variable, but only a **Variant** whose value can be interpreted as a number can be assigned to a numeric variable. Use the **IsNumeric** function to determine if the **Variant** can be converted to a number.
Assigning an expression of one  [numeric type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to a variable of a different numeric type coerces the value of the expression into the numeric type of the resulting variable.
 **Let** statements can be used to assign one record variable to another only when both variables are of the same [user-defined type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). Use the  **LSet** statement to assign record variables of different user-defined types. Use the **Set** statement to assign object references to variables.

## Example

This example assigns the values of expressions to variables using the explicit  **Let** statement.


```
Dim MyStr, MyInt 
' The following variable assignments use the Let statement. 
Let MyStr = "Hello World" 
Let MyInt = 5 

```

The following are the same assignments without the  **Let** statement.




```
Dim MyStr, MyInt 
MyStr = "Hello World" 
MyInt = 5 

```

