
# Constants, fixed-length strings, arrays, user-defined types, and Declare statements not allowed as Public members of an object module

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Not all  [variables](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) in an [object module](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) can be declared as **Public**. However, procedures are  **Public** by default, and **Property** procedures can be used to simulate variables syntactically. This error has the following causes and solutions:




- You declared a  **Public** [constant](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) in an object module.
    
    Although you can't declare a  **Public** constant in an object module, you can create a **Property Get** procedure with the same name. If you don't create a **Property Let** or **Property Set** procedure with that name, you are in effect creating a read-only property that can be used the same way you would use a constant.
    
- You declared a  **Public** fixed-length string in an object module. You can simulate fixed-length strings with a set of **Property** procedures that either truncate the string data when it exceeds the permitted length, or notify the user that the length has been exceeded.
    
- You declared a  **Public** [array](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) in an object module.
    
    Although a procedure can't return an array, it can return a  [Variant](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) that contains an array. To simulate a **Public** array in a class module, use a set of **Property** procedures that accept and return a **Variant** containing an array.
    
- You placed a  **Declare** statement in an object module. **Declare** statements are implicitly public. Precede the **Declare** statement with the **Private** [keyword](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).
    

For additional information, select the item in question and press F1 (in Windows) or HELP (on the Macintosh).
