
# LSet Statement

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Left aligns a string within a string  [variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), or copies a variable of one  [user-defined type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to another variable of a different user-defined type.

 **Syntax**

 **LSet**_stringvar_**=**_string_
 **LSet**_varname1_**=**_varname2_
The  **LSet** statement syntax has these parts:


|**Part**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| _stringvar_|Required. Name of string  [variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md).|
| _string_|Required.  [String expression](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) to be left-aligned within _stringvar._|
| _varname1_|Required. Variable name of the user-defined type being copied to.|
| _varname2_|Required. Variable name of the user-defined type being copied from.|
 **Remarks**
 **LSet** replaces any leftover characters in _stringvar_ with spaces.
If  _string_ is longer than _stringvar_,  **LSet** places only the leftmost characters, up to the length of the _stringvar,_ in _stringvar_.
Using  **LSet** to copy a variable of one user-defined type into a variable of a different user-defined type is not recommended. Copying data of one [data type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) into space reserved for a different data type can cause unpredictable results.
When you copy a variable from one user-defined type to another, the binary data from one variable is copied into the memory space of the other, without regard for the data types specified for the elements.

## Example

This example uses the  **LSet** statement to left align a string within a string variable. Although **LSet** can also be used to copy a variable of one user-defined type to another variable of a different, but compatible, user-defined type, this practice is not recommended. Due to the varying implementations of data structures among platforms, such a use of **LSet** can't be guaranteed to be portable.


```
Dim MyString 
MyString = "0123456789" ' Initialize string. 
Lset MyString = "<-Left" ' MyString contains "<-Left ". 

```

