
# Words Object (Word)

A collection of words in a selection, range, or document. Each item in the  **Words** collection is a **Range** object that represents one word. There is no Word object.


## Remarks

Use the  **Words** property to return the **Words** object. The following code example displays how many words are currently selected.


```vb
MsgBox Selection.Words.Count &; " words are selected"
```

Use  **Words** (Index), where Index is the index number, to return a **Range** object that represents one word. The index number represents the position of the word in the **Words** collection. The following code example formats the first word in the selection as 24-point italic.




```vb
With Selection.Words(1) 
 .Italic = True 
 .Font.Size = 24 
End With
```

The item in the  **Words** collection includes both the word and the spaces after the word. To remove the trailing spaces, use the Visual Basic **RTrim** function — for example, _RTrim(ActiveDocument.Words(1))_ . The following code example selects the first word (and its trailing spaces) in the active document.




```vb
ActiveDocument.Words(1).Select
```

If the selection is the insertion point and it is immediately followed by a space,  _Selection.Words(1)_ refers to the word preceding the selection. If the selection is the insertion point and is immediately followed by a character, _Selection.Words(1)_ refers to the word following the selection.

The  **Count** property for this collection in a document returns the number of items in the main story only. To count items in other stories use the collection with the **Range** object. Also, the **Count** property includes punctuation and paragraph marks in the total. To count the actual words in a document, use the **Word Count** dialog box. The following code example retrieves the number of words in the active document and assigns the value to the variable _numWords_ .




```vb
Set temp = Dialogs(wdDialogToolsWordCount) 
' Execute the dialog box to refresh its data. 
temp.Execute 
numWords = temp.Words
```


 **Note**  For more information about calling built-in dialog boxes, see [Displaying built-in Word dialog boxes](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/abe465f9-09a1-72ea-2e2d-9de14fc02434%28Office.15%29.aspx).

The  **Add** method is not available for the **Words** collection. Instead, use the **InsertAfter** method or the **InsertBefore** method to add text to a **Range** object. The following code example inserts text after the first word in the active document.




```vb
ActiveDocument.Range.Words(1).InsertAfter "New text "
```


## See also


#### Other resources


[Words Object Members](92281dcf-075c-ce1d-8342-cf1749ebb8ab.md)
[Word Object Model Reference](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd%28Office.15%29.aspx)
