
# Attachments Object (Publisher)

The collection of  **[Attachment](d617bdf6-b0ba-be0d-0f72-f729010636c1.md)** objects that represents all the attachments to a merged e-mail message.
 


## Remarks

The  **Attachments** collection corresponds to the list of attachments in the **Attachments** box in the **Merge to E-mail** dialog box in the Microsoft Publisher user interface (on the **File** menu, point to **Send E-mail**, click  **Send E-mail Merge**, and then click  **Options**).
 

 
To add an  **Attachment** object to the **Attachments** collection and thereby add an attachment to the list of attachments to the merged e-mail that you want to send, use the **Attachments.Add** method.
 

 
To remove a single attachment from an e-mail merge message, use the  **Attachment.Delete** method of the specific **Attachment** object that you want to remove from the **Attachments** collection.
 

 
To remove all the attachments to the merged e-mail and thereby empty the  **Attachments** collection, use the **Attachments.ClearAll** method.
 

 
The default property of the  **Attachments** collection is the **Item** property.
 

 

## Example

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to use the  **Add** method to add an attachment to an e-mail merge message. The macro adds an **Attachment** object that represents a bitmap image to the **Attachments** collection of the active document. It also iterates through the **Attachments** collection and prints the name of each attachment in the **Immediate** window.
 

 
Before running this macro, place a file named  _image.bmp_ in the root of the C drive on your computer, or change the name and path of the file in the macro to specify the one you want to attach.
 

 
To send an e-mail merge message, you must connect to a data source, create the e-mail merge, and then send the message. For more information, see the **[EmailMergeEnvelope](555dd80e-bac2-96dd-4256-ad1b8006da0f.md)** object topic.
 

 



```
Public Sub Attachments_Example() 
 
 Dim pubAttachments As Publisher.Attachments 
 Dim pubAttachment As Publisher.Attachment 
 Dim pubAttachment_Added As Publisher.Attachment 
 Dim pubMailMerge As Publisher.MailMerge 
 Dim pubEmailMergeEnvelope As Publisher.EmailMergeEnvelope 
 
 Set pubMailMerge = ThisDocument.MailMerge 
 Set pubEmailMergeEnvelope = pubMailMerge.EmailMergeEnvelope 
 Set pubAttachments = pubEmailMergeEnvelope.Attachemts 
 
 Set pubAttachment_Added = pubAttachments.Add("C:\image.bmp ") 
 
 For Each pubAttachment In pubAttachments 
 Debug.Print pubAttachment.Name 
 Next 
 
End Sub
```


## Methods



|**Name**|
|:-----|
|[Add](dbf2eb67-5e28-a7e6-226f-feac9045186b.md)|
|[ClearAll](ae4e4c60-56cb-f97b-06f4-bd0d2abac4ee.md)|

## Properties



|**Name**|
|:-----|
|[Application](b0c35dd3-8e24-3028-f480-9b0aede77e08.md)|
|[Count](44f4c11a-2ad7-5d1c-9e9c-046a1367dad6.md)|
|[Item](fa01c528-fc0d-9fbd-1dad-cab695a14682.md)|
|[Parent](486b6184-361c-09a9-0599-d829abfbc677.md)|
