
# TableView Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a view that displays Outlook items in a table, with each item in a row and the details of the item in the columns.

## Remarks

The  **TableView** object, derived from the ** [View](41c8d149-9912-1685-4c8b-3c849cc6f1ed.md)** object, allows you to create customizable views that allow you to display Outlook items in a table.

Outlook provides several built-in  **TableView** objects, and you can also create custom **TableView** objects. Use the ** [Add](8005ca2e-8b28-1286-74d1-448f2a168c65.md)** method of the ** [Views](5dd7edc2-12a2-f4c2-d158-8053d80e8dc9.md)** collection to add a new **TableView** to a ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object. Use the **Standard** property to determine if an existing **TableView** object is built-in or custom.

You can configure the appearance and functionality of the  **TableView** object. Use the ** [AutomaticColumnSizing](b599fec1-a6a4-fc12-0d95-bae9491c40d1.md)** property to determine whether the view automatically resizes columns and the ** [AutomaticGrouping](2f773e6b-c4dd-7b2c-461b-91dd0e71a3f8.md)** property to determine if the view automatically groups Outlook items. Use the ** [AutoPreview](51d20d34-5a2f-03f6-cfea-2279d286f067.md)** property to determine whether preview information is displayed within the row for an Outlook item in the view, and the ** [AutoPreviewFont](988e7bc4-9957-f611-b89e-1eb7a14fbfcc.md)** property to specify the font used to display preview information. Use the ** [Multiline](732b39ca-ec7f-5a43-db55-3351a368b599.md)** property to determine whether to show Outlook items in multiline mode.

You can also configure how Outlook items appear within the  **TableView** object. Use the ** [ColumnFont](f69ff872-1823-b5c0-9a3d-d4cf72973be1.md)** property to specify the font used for column headers and the ** [RowFont](691be8dc-8811-64d0-7473-93a0fe8b4749.md)** property to specify the font used for Outlook items in the view. Use the ** [AllowInCellEditing](dc6fa249-405f-6262-b085-53da15ba3d72.md)** property to allow editing of Outlook item property values in the view. Use the ** [Filter](7e65e578-5f0c-d875-608c-cefe9bc1b55b.md)** property to determine which Outlook items to display in the view and the ** [ViewFields](c4c6257e-fdbe-c187-86c5-34bee3eb0bd3.md)** collection to specify the Outlook item properties to display for each Outlook item. Use the ** [GroupByFields](42071d7b-0e41-c959-cb54-c49307d22a87.md)** to specify the Outlook item properties by which Outlook items are grouped, and the ** [SortFields](0b643d55-c4cb-dcba-b90b-66f6b936b5a8.md)** collection to specify the Outlook item properties by which Outlook items are sorted in the view.

The definition for each  **TableView** object is stored in Extensible Markup Language (XML) format. Use the ** [XML](0f085984-3056-6603-ca12-a4436abf429f.md)** property to work with the XML definition for the **TableView** object.

Use the  ** [Apply](c3855dee-c86b-a618-ba3e-968cca87e0e1.md)** method to apply any changes made to the **TableView** object to the current view. Use the ** [Save](729f20ee-f9ea-93de-f38a-ebc8e9da4b2e.md)** method to persist any changes made to the **TableView** object. Use the ** [LockUserChanges](3d4491ff-dad0-055a-b9e5-9de19cd1eb0d.md)** property to allow or prevent changes to the user interface for the view.

You can change built-in  **TableView** objects, but you cannot delete them. Use the ** [Delete](17ff648a-bfbd-4284-b049-39f0d23df45d.md)** method to delete a custom **TableView** object. Use the ** [Reset](bb164b86-804c-8b4f-4dd7-505d400e8b08.md)** method to reset the properties of a built-in **TableView** object to their default values.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [TableView Object Members](2cc17ec6-12cf-d335-9370-d3922b45510e.md)
