
# ContactItem.EntryID Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns a  **String** representing the unique Entry ID of the object. Read-only.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **EntryID**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ContactItem** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This property corresponds to the MAPI property  **PidTagEntryId**.

A MAPI store provider assigns a unique ID string when an item is created in its store. Therefore, the  **EntryID** property is not set for an Outlook item until it is saved or sent. The Entry ID changes when an item is moved into another store, for example, from your **Inbox** to a Microsoft Exchange Server public folder, or from one Personal Folders (.pst) file to another .pst file. Solutions should not depend on the **EntryID** property to be unique unless items will not be moved. The **EntryID** property returns a MAPI long-term Entry ID. For more information about long- and short-term **EntryID**s, search http://msdn.microsoft.com for  **PidTagEntryId**. 


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example uses the  **EntryID** property to compare the Entry ID of one contact to the Entry ID of a contact returned by a search operation to determine whether the objects represent the same contact. Replace the name with a valid contact name in your Contacts folder before running this example.


```
Sub UseEntryID() 
 Dim myNamespace As Outlook.NameSpace 
 Dim myContacts As Outlook.Folder 
 Dim myItem1 As Outlook.ContactItem 
 Dim myItem2 As Outlook.ContactItem 
 
 Set myNameSpace = Application.GetNamespace("MAPI") 
 Set myContacts = myNameSpace.GetDefaultFolder(olFolderContacts) 
 Set myItem1 = myContacts.Items.Find("[FirstName] = ""Dan""") 
 Set myitem2 = myContacts.Items.Find("[FileAs] = ""Wil"" and [FirstName] = ""Dan""") 
 If Not TypeName(myitem2) = "Nothing" Then 
 If myItem1.EntryID = myitem2.EntryID Then 
 MsgBox "These two contact items refer to the same contact." 
 End If 
 Else 
 MsgBox "The contact items were not found." 
 End If 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ContactItem Object](8e32093c-a678-f1fd-3f35-c2d8994d166f.md)
#### Other resources


 [ContactItem Object Members](a8b13369-4c87-02aa-e62a-1f3067e559fa.md)
