
# TimeZone.Bias Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns a  **Long** value that represents the difference in minutes of between the local time in this time zone and the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Read-only.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Bias**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **TimeZone** object.


## Remarks

This value is stored as part of the value for  **TZI** for that time zone in the Windows registry. The **TZI** value is mapped to the Windows ** [TIME_ZONE_INFORMATION](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/base.time_zone_information_str%28Office.15%29.aspx)** structure.

 **Bias** does not take into account any time offset for daylight time or standard time in the time zone. To account for any daylight time offset, use ** [DaylightBias](59c83104-7ce5-95a9-71fa-df3b0a96e173.md)**. In general, when the local time zone is adopting daylight time, UTC time is the result of adding the  **Bias** and **DaylightBias** to the local time. To account for any standard time offset, use ** [StandardBias](0400a70c-4a53-417d-8d6e-c0271b4c1dcb.md)**. In general, when the local time zone is adopting standard time, UTC time is the result of adding the  **Bias** and **StandardBias** to the local time.

For example, in a state adopting daylight time in the Pacific time zone, the  **Bias** is 480 minutes and **DaylightBias** is -60 minutes. To determine the time in UTC for June 11, 2 A.M. PST, add a **Bias** of (480/60) hours and a **DaylightBias** of -(60/60) hours to the local time June 11, 2 A.M. The time in UTC is June 11, 9 A.M.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [TimeZone Object](b27da70d-e545-cc13-9529-cfd327ab7a7c.md)
#### Other resources


 [TimeZone Object Members](2d6dc563-52f4-5707-b84d-a9c897eb2cda.md)
