
# Creating a Reply Form

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Outlook 2013_

When you create a message form, you often want users to send a reply by using a reply form.

An Action automatically opens a reply form, typically after a user clicks  **Reply**,  **Forward**, or another command on the form. For example, an Action can create a  **Forward** button, that, when selected by the user, opens a forward form for the user to fill in and send. You can specify that the form use standard **Reply** and **Forward** headers, and you can even add prefix text, such as "RE:," to the **Subject** field of your custom reply form.
You can use the default reply forms included with Microsoft Outlook (these are the forms listed on the  **Actions** page), or you can disable any of these forms and create a custom reply form. (For more information, see [How to: Disable a Standard Reply Form?](b1a3f8fc-6400-9ae8-dab2-a4875ccaf92b.md)) The custom reply forms that you create are listed on the  **Actions** page in design mode in the form.
You can create custom buttons and menu commands and specify what happens when the user selects them. You can also create a button or menu command that opens a task, a Calendar item, or even a note.
You can send information without opening a reply form by pre-addressing a custom reply form to go to a specific e-mail address or to a public folder.
For more information, see the following topics:

-  [How to: Add a custom button or menu command to start a reply form](fedf64ec-6c4f-bc89-b144-f5105851c8fa.md)
    
-  [How to: Use standard Reply and Forward headers on a form](bec50290-e0ab-873b-501c-86c01ed4aedd.md)
    
-  [How to: Automatically insert text into the Subject field of a reply form](8e35cbd6-1ce2-7a73-4365-9082b1c745e1.md)
    
-  [How to: Specify whether a form prompts the user, opens, or is sent](37026f13-322d-d435-48b0-ec488c346215.md)
    
-  [How to: Pre-address a reply form to a public folder or an e-mail address](f6986661-b42b-0421-cf08-cecad4e0e7b1.md)
    
