
# UserProperties Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Contains  ** [UserProperty](c94f642f-4368-d775-a79f-ce6c39bfe1fd.md)** objects that represent the custom properties of an Outlook item.

## Remarks

Use the  **UserProperties** property to return the **UserProperties** object for an Outlook item. This applies to all Outlook items except for the ** [NoteItem](ddf5baaa-6e13-a6fb-96e8-311e7761fa98.md)**.

Use the  ** [Add](88b86622-2234-77be-41e7-b76b0b3a75ad.md)** method to create a new **UserProperty** for an item and add it to the **UserProperties** object. The **Add** method allows you to specify a name and type for the new property. When you create a new property, it can also be added as a custom field to the folder that contains the item (using the same name as the property) by setting theAddToFolderFields parameter to **True** when calling the **Add** method. That field can then be used as a column in folder views.

Use  **UserProperties**( _index_), where  _index_ is a name or one-based index number, to return a single ** [UserProperty](c94f642f-4368-d775-a79f-ce6c39bfe1fd.md)** object.

You can use the  ** [UserDefinedProperties](4293bcb8-855e-4c6d-9718-ba8c5862b3bd.md)** property of the ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object to retrieve and examine the definitions of custom item-level properties that a folder can display in a view.

To get or set multiple custom properties, use the  ** [PropertyAccessor](2fc91e13-703c-3ec9-9066-ffee7144306c.md)** object instead of the **UserProperties** object for better performance.


## Example

The following example adds a custom text property named MyPropName to myItem.


```
Set myProp = myItem.UserProperties.Add("MyPropName", olText)
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [UserProperties Object Members](b71f8a0b-3951-cfb0-89f2-df8851f3993d.md)
