
# Sorting Fields in a View

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Specifying Properties for Sorting](#sectionSection0)
 [Specifying Built-In Properties for Sorting](#sectionSection1)
 [Specifying Custom Properties for Sorting](#sectionSection2)


 Outlook items can be sorted by adding one or more Outlook item properties to the ** [OrderFields](e115fb80-352d-fd2e-c1c3-d266776fe122.md)** collection of any of the following objects:


-  ** [BusinessCardView](83706cf8-080c-fbf0-9381-5801a2dd4dfd.md)**
    
-  ** [CardView](cdac229b-f2b6-9ecb-e1a7-b53509426570.md)**
    
-  ** [IconView](dc2efa6c-4752-f713-f77e-378036f358dc.md)**
    
-  ** [TableView](026e27f8-1655-060d-e8cc-87eaaf4f1510.md)**
    
Outlook items in a  ** [CalendarView](37e078b9-9fc6-5894-b043-06d7257666a8.md)** or ** [TimelineView](fb14c1a1-f542-fa1e-f30f-c5ee3d2f0206.md)** object are displayed in chronological order, depending on the values of the Outlook item properties specified for the **StartField** and **EndField** properties of the view.
The  **OrderFields** collection for those views can be retrieved by calling the **SortFields** property of the appropriate view object. The ** [Add](aabd32ef-e707-ddc5-24b6-723293273e56.md)** method of the **OrderFields** collection is used to create an ** [OrderField](4ae32270-bde9-3178-bca3-f8d145779d3d.md)** object that represents the Outlook item property to be sorted.

## Specifying Properties for Sorting
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

You can add either built-in or custom Outlook item properties to the  **OrderFields** collection. The order in which the properties are included in the **OrderFields** collection determines the order in which the properties are sorted, while the ** [IsDescending](941f7144-748a-7b57-35f1-3e29077b926d.md)** property of the **OrderField** object which represents an Outlook item property determines whether the values of that property are sorted in ascending or descending order.


## Specifying Built-In Properties for Sorting
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The following guidelines should be used when specifying built-in Outlook item properties:


- Built-in properties can be specified either by property name (for example, "Subject") or by namespace (for example, "http://schemas.microsoft.com/mapi/proptag/0x0037001E").
    
- Property names are not case-sensitive and cannot include spaces.
    
- Namespace identifiers are case-sensitive, must follow URL encoding rules, and cannot be enclosed in square brackets ([]).
    

## Specifying Custom Properties for Sorting
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following guidelines should be used when specifying custom properties:


- The custom property must be available in the  ** [UserDefinedProperties](196e5d4c-22be-02d3-95e0-3ea7594c2e4b.md)** collection for the parent ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object.
    
- Custom properties should be specified by property name (for example, "[Shoe Size]").
    
- Custom property names are not case-sensitive, can include spaces, and should be enclosed in square brackets ([]) if they contain spaces.
    
For more information about property identifiers, see  [Properties Overview](242c9e89-a0c5-ff89-0d2a-410bd42a3461.md).

