
# SelectNamesDialog.NumberOfRecipientSelectors Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  ** [OlRecipientSelectors](d7025d23-ef48-eeab-26b6-ea5ebee58c8e.md)** constant that determines the number of recipient edit boxes (each associated with a command button) displayed in the **Select Names** dialog box. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **NumberOfRecipientSelectors**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **SelectNamesDialog** object.


## Remarks

A recipient edit box allows you to enter recipient names. Each recipient edit box is associated with a command button in the  **Select Names** dialog box; examples of a command button for a recipient edit box are the **To** and **Cc** command buttons. The default value of **NumberOfRecipientSelectors** is **OlRecipientSelectors.olToCcBcc**.

If you set  **NumberOfRecipientSelectors** to **OlRecipientSelectors.olShowTo** and then subsequently set the text for ** [SelectNamesDialog.CcLabel](b28def6f-725c-ba65-cf7f-4abbc7ba3cb8.md)** or ** [SelectNamesDialog.BccLabel](9c826c3e-c7d3-6fd0-f900-24ba31925681.md)**, the  **NumberOfRecipientSelectors** will remain unchanged.

If you set  **NumberOfRecipientSelectors** to **OlRecipientSelectors.olShowNone**, then the  ** [SelectNamesDialog.AllowMultipleSelection](e8b67f2a-b6c1-16af-6762-801536d4f93f.md)** property will be ignored.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [SelectNamesDialog Object](1522736a-3cad-9f1c-4da9-b52a3a01731c.md)
#### Other resources


 [SelectNamesDialog Object Members](0f5546af-f89a-8a8b-ced9-a2d646bf9634.md)
