
# ContactsModule.Position Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Long** value that represents the ordinal position of the ** [ContactsModule](fb183bd5-c72f-b38f-97e3-209a2a463d24.md)** object when it is displayed in the Navigation Pane. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Position**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ContactsModule** object.


## Remarks

This property can only be set to a value between 1 and 9. An error occurs if you attempt to set this property to a value outside that range.

Changing the value of this property for a given  **ContactsModule** object changes the **Position** values of other navigation modules in a ** [NavigationModules](4b0743d3-0a21-488c-27b2-31ae07129a61.md)** collection, depending on the relative change between the new value and the original value.


- If the new value is less than the original value, the specified  **ContactsModule** object moves up to the new position and the other navigation modules that are already at or below that new position move down.
    
- If the new value is greater than the original value, the specified  **ContactsModule** object moves down to the new position and the other navigation modules that are between the old position and the new position move up, filling the old position.
    

## See also


#### Concepts


 [ContactsModule Object](fb183bd5-c72f-b38f-97e3-209a2a463d24.md)
#### Other resources


 [ContactsModule Object Members](b40e316b-2b79-6e46-0bda-7feb67ca5b9e.md)
