
# Attachment.GetTemporaryFilePath Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns the full path to the attached file that is in a temporary files folder. Read-only.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **GetTemporaryFilePath**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  ** [Attachment](3e11582b-ac90-0948-bc37-506570bb287b.md)** object.


### Return Value

Returns a  **String** that represents the full path to the temporary attachment file.


## Remarks

The  **GetTemporaryFilePath** method is only valid for those attachments whose ** [Type](5cf35c53-a8b7-26b5-2c3c-b1d3263ee1e7.md)** property is **OlAttachmentType.olByValue**. That means that the attachment is a copy and that the copy can be accessed even if the original file is removed. For other attachment types, the  **GetTemporaryFilePath** method returns an error.

 **GetTemporaryFilePath** also returns an error when accessing an ** [Attachment](3e11582b-ac90-0948-bc37-506570bb287b.md)** object in an ** [Attachments](4cc96a5f-a822-8ad5-6f61-e996bee8ba22.md)** collection or in the ** [AttachmentSelection](398cf106-a904-9048-e627-e47aaadf1105.md)** object. Use **GetTemporaryFilePath** only in attachment event callbacks listed below for various Microsoft Outlook items:


-  **AttachmentAdd**
    
-  **AttachmentRead**
    
-  **AttachmentRemove**
    
-  **BeforeAttachmentAdd**
    
-  **BeforeAttachmentPreview**
    
-  **BeforeAttachmentRead**
    
-  **BeforeAttachmentSave**
    
-  **BeforeAttachmentWriteToTempFile**
    



## See also


#### Concepts


 [Attachment Object](3e11582b-ac90-0948-bc37-506570bb287b.md)
#### Other resources


 [Attachment Object Members](f4870da5-c632-3d18-3038-b64b67777ecc.md)
