
# CalendarView Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a view that displays Outlook items in a calendar format.

## Remarks

The  **CalendarView** object, derived from the ** [View](41c8d149-9912-1685-4c8b-3c849cc6f1ed.md)** object, allows you to create customizable views that allow you to display Outlook items within a calendar, in one of several different modes.

Outlook provides several built-in  **CalendarView** objects, and you can also create custom **CalendarView** objects. Use the ** [Add](8005ca2e-8b28-1286-74d1-448f2a168c65.md)** method of the ** [Views](5dd7edc2-12a2-f4c2-d158-8053d80e8dc9.md)** collection to add a new **CalendarView** to a ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object. Use the ** [Standard](798b5dcd-9226-b0f9-032e-bcfa7b3e17ab.md)** property to determine if an existing **CalendarView** object is built-in or custom.

The  **CalendarView** object supports several different view modes, depending on the desired layout and time period in which to display Outlook items. Use the ** [CalendarViewMode](144e46ed-984f-fac0-fad3-0ff5ac9f2996.md)** property to set the view mode, the ** [StartField](085c6605-0bff-98a5-fb48-ce32b76037db.md)** property to specify the Outlook item property that contains the start date, and the ** [EndField](311994db-ef43-e49c-6f0e-9b346d0bb3ca.md)** property to specify the Outlook item property that contains the end date for Outlook items to be displayed.

If you set the  **CalendarViewMode** property to any value other than **olCalendarViewMonth**, you can use the  ** [DayWeekFont](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ddb6f65d-72e2-d3f2-b10f-b3d8bc4d21b3%28Office.15%29.aspx)** and ** [DayWeekTimeFont](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/37ea6e1f-4148-3ab4-e0aa-48c49321ac91%28Office.15%29.aspx)** properties to configure the fonts used to display the day, date, and time labels in the view. Use the ** [DayWeekTimeScale](94f2aad5-6699-82e9-40a4-3c3c13d80684.md)** to configure the time scale used to display Outlook items within the view. If you set the **CalendarViewMode** to **olCalendarViewMultiDay**, you can use the  ** [DaysInMultiDayMode](1dcb2a69-93b9-432e-56ca-7e39b040dc6f.md)** property to determine the number of days to display in the view.

If you set the  **CalendarViewMode** to **olCalendarViewMonth**, you can use the  ** [MonthFont](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/b69d1690-d1a8-dbc0-3de4-86a8eb98a471%28Office.15%29.aspx)** property to configure the fonts used to display the month and day labels and the ** [MonthShowEndTime](19a92965-aa85-e1f6-9db6-ce85c7980d75.md)** to indicate whether the end time for is displayed in the view.

You can also configure how Outlook items appear within the  **CalendarView** object. Use the ** [BoldSubjects](b7bf5518-68d0-0a8a-98b2-94c267855f2b.md)** property to indicate whether subjects for Outlook items are displayed in bold and the ** [BoldDatesWithItems](4928abe0-c650-f09e-796c-5d931a1c6aae.md)** property to indicate whether dates in the Date Navigator that contain Outlook items are displayed in bold. Use the ** [Filter](c62e9521-e1aa-bfe8-5774-25c3227973b5.md)** property to determine which Outlook items to display in the view.

The definition for each  **CalendarView** object is stored in Extensible Markup Language (XML) format. Use the ** [XML](f188b827-77c6-71da-0b36-972b16b843a8.md)** property to work with the XML definition for the **CalendarView** object.

Use the  ** [Apply](274edf67-7a3b-8132-3990-a07fa30b5024.md)** method to apply any changes made to the **CalendarView** object to the current view. Use the ** [Save](19cea2c8-39bd-875c-2cde-50d19f25f73b.md)** method to persist any changes made to the **CalendarView** object. Use the ** [LockUserChanges](b5102728-a0d4-6eb6-15ae-916644fe6f9c.md)** property to allow or prevent changes to the user interface for the view.

You can change built-in  **CalendarView** objects, but you cannot delete them. Use the ** [Delete](90a07253-844e-d40b-6450-c97a9cf85c58.md)** method to delete a custom **CalendarView** object. Use the ** [Reset](222b2537-4d70-6a12-97f2-5034a262655b.md)** method to reset the properties of a built-in **CalendarView** object to their default values.


## Example

The following Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example configures the current  **CalendarView** object to show a single day, using an 8-point Verdana font to display items and a 16-point Verdana font to display time values and the Tasks header within the view.


```
Sub ConfigureDayViewFonts() 
 Dim objView As CalendarView 
 
 ' Check if the current view is a calendar view. 
 If Application.ActiveExplorer.CurrentView.ViewType = _ 
 olCalendarView Then 
 
 ' Obtain a CalendarView object reference for the 
 ' current calendar view. 
 Set objView = _ 
 Application.ActiveExplorer.CurrentView 
 
 With objView 
 ' Set the calendar view to show a 
 ' single day. 
 .CalendarViewMode = olCalendarViewDay 
 
 ' Set the DayWeekFont to 8-point Verdana. 
 .DayWeekFont.Name = "Verdana" 
 .DayWeekFont.Size = 8 
 
 ' Set the DayWeekTimeFont to 16-point Verdana. 
 .DayWeekTimeFont.Name = "Verdana" 
 .DayWeekTimeFont.Size = 16 
 
 ' Save the calendar view. 
 .Save 
 End With 
 End If 
End Sub 

```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [CalendarView Object Members](c8ee2de7-d65c-90b2-0d63-5fa584c7c500.md)
