
# MailItem.Permission Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Sets or returns an  ** [OlPermission](11126d37-33da-53f7-f5b6-ea8603998651.md)** constant that determines what permissions to grant to the recipients of the e-mail item. Read/write.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Permission**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [MailItem](14197346-05d2-0250-fa4c-4a6b07daf25f.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **Permission** property should be synchronized with the ** [PermissionTemplateGuid](33436080-1a1c-dee2-5048-83392c241e86.md)** property to accurately reflect the permission status of the **MailItem**. Setting the  **PermissionTemplateGuid** property to a valid GUID also sets the **Permission** property to **OlPermission.olPermissionTemplate**.

 When no Information Rights Management (IRM) has been set up, (in which case the **Permission** property is **OlPermission.olUnrestricted**), or the restriction is not to forward the  **MailItem**, (in which case the  **Permission** property is **OlPermission.olDoNotForward**), the value of the  **PermissionTemplateGuid** property should be an empty string.

Although you can view content that is protected by IRM on any computer that is running the 2007 Microsoft Office system or a later version, you must have Microsoft Office Professional Edition 2003, Microsoft Office Outlook 2007, or a later version of Outlook to create or send an e-mail that is protected by IRM.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example uses the  ** [Send](78c85013-523e-447b-c47d-2da0705f1fe0.md)**event and sends an item with a 'Do not forward' restriction. You must place the sample code in a class module such as  **ThisOutlookSession**, and the  `SendMyMail` procedure must be called before the event procedure can be called by Microsoft Outlook. Replace 'Dan Wilson' with a valid recipient name before you run this example.


```
Public WithEvents myItem As Outlook.MailItem 
 
 
 
Sub SendMyMail() 
 
 Set myItem = Outlook.CreateItem(olMailItem) 
 
 myItem.To = "Dan Wilson" 
 
 myItem.Subject = "Data files information" 
 
 myItem.Send 
 
End Sub 
 
 
 
Private Sub myItem_Send(Cancel As Boolean) 
 
 myItem.Permission = olDoNotForward 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [MailItem Object](14197346-05d2-0250-fa4c-4a6b07daf25f.md)
#### Other resources


 [MailItem Object Members](1094d7df-ee80-a4b0-5a21-db2979506e6b.md)
