
# Search.GetTable Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Obtains a  ** [Table](0affaafd-93fe-227a-acee-e09a86cadc20.md)** object that contains items filtered by the _Filter_ parameter in a preceding ** [Application.AdvancedSearch](7b433d8b-08b9-dff1-b854-287d76b47a90.md)** method call.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **GetTable**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Search** object.


### Return Value

A  **Table** that contains items that meet the criteria specified by the _Filter_ parameter in a preceding **Application.AdvancedSearch** method call.


## Remarks

Unlike  ** [Folder.GetTable](08d184cb-0c41-01b1-abc5-305476380f8b.md)**,  **Search.GetTable** does not accept a _Filter_ parameter. The filter for the **Table** is determined by ** [Search.Filter](f6040465-da73-56f6-edb7-06d93bb8b531.md)**. Since  **Search.Filter** is a read-only property, the _Filter_ parameter for the **Application.AdvancedSearch** method establishes the filter for the **Table** object returned by **Search.GetTable**.

The  _Filter_ parameter supplied to **Application.AdvancedSearch** must be a DASL query. The filter for **AdvancedSearch** will not accept a JET query. Do not prefix a DASL query for **AdvancedSearch** with "@SQL=". If you add the "@SQL=" prefix, your query will raise an error. For more information on filters, see [Filtering Items](4038e042-1b07-5d18-18b0-c2b58c9c42da.md).

 **Search.GetTable** returns a **Table** with the default column set for the folder type of the parent **Folder**. To modify the default column set, use the  ** [Add](d438cfeb-629f-4234-6f4f-ffa086ef9a41.md)**,  ** [Remove](f567879c-f37a-2b65-b4a5-832b6f3acdf8.md)**, or  ** [RemoveAll](e9923548-9c75-e5dd-0643-3c42cd112352.md)** methods of the ** [Columns](628bf0cf-4ee8-5e5c-09d7-89d7adf256ca.md)** collection object. For more information on default column sets, see [Default Properties Displayed in a Table Object](649c64f3-2d1e-23f1-bf13-3368da79e62b.md).

Unlike  **Folder.GetTable**, you cannot use  ** [Table.Restrict](ecdd30f6-e12c-8025-3ded-592d2fad2bb8.md)** to apply subsequent filters to a **Table** that is based on the **Search** object. Specify a new filter in **Application.AdvancedSearch** to re-apply a filter.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Search Object](226a5d49-3caf-90dd-725c-265404d1939f.md)
#### Other resources


 [Search Object Members](543773b8-9f38-8d3e-2279-8f2a581ccd18.md)
