
# View Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a customizable view used to sort, group, and view data.

## Remarks

The  **View** object allows you to create customizable views that allow you to better sort, group and ultimately view data of all different types. There are a variety of different view types that provide the flexibility needed to create and maintain your important data.


- The table view type ( **olTableView**) allows you to view data in a simple field-based table.
    
- The Calendar view type ( **olCalendarView**) allows you to view data in a calendar format.
    
- The card view type ( **olCardView**) allows you to view data in a series of cards. Each card displays the information contained by the item and can be sorted.
    
- The icon view type ( **olIconView**) allows you to view data as icons, similar to a Windows folder or explorer.
    
- The timeline view type ( **olTimelineView**) allows you to view data as it is received in a customizable linear time line.
    
Views are defined and customized using the  **View** object's ** [XML](a933daaa-370f-2ed3-0a59-86f766a1f2c8.md)** property. The **XML** property allows you to create and set a customized XML schema that defines the various features of a view.

Use  **Views**( _index_), where  _index_ is the name of the **View** object or its ordinal value, to return a single **View** object.

Use the  ** [Add](8005ca2e-8b28-1286-74d1-448f2a168c65.md)** method of the **Views** collection to create a new view.

Always use  ** [Save](effc4046-2e9c-3898-e37f-c4de817ddde7.md)** to save a view after you change any property of the view.


## Example

The following example returns a view called Table View and stores it in a variable of type  **View** called objView. Before running this example, make sure a view by the name 'Table View' exists.


```
Sub GetView() 
 
 'Creates a new view 
 
 Dim objName As NameSpace 
 
 Dim objViews As Views 
 
 Dim objView As View 
 
 
 
 Set objName = Application.GetNamespace("MAPI") 
 
 Set objViews = objName.GetDefaultFolder(olFolderInbox).Views 
 
 'Return a view called Table View 
 
 Set objView = objViews.Item("Table View") 
 
End Sub
```

The following example creates a new view of type  **olTableView** called New Table.




```
Sub CreateView() 
 
 'Creates a new view 
 
 Dim objName As NameSpace 
 
 Dim objViews As Views 
 
 Dim objNewView As View 
 
 
 
 Set objName = Application.GetNamespace("MAPI") 
 
 Set objViews = objName.GetDefaultFolder(olFolderInbox).Views 
 
 Set objNewView = objViews.Add(Name:="New Table", _ 
 
 ViewType:=olTableView, SaveOption:=olViewSaveOptionThisFolderEveryone) 
 
End Sub
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [View Object Members](ed3196c6-e779-64f7-db1d-e2fd22bb4688.md)
