
# RuleCondition.Enabled Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Boolean** that determines if the ** [RuleCondition](e03f91c2-2c08-b036-104a-d6246f28bc2d.md)** is enabled. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Enabled**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **RuleCondition** object.


## Remarks

After you enable a rule condition, you must also save the rule by using  ** [Rules.Save](d838eca0-4ec5-ab43-a031-fd65ab7d9f3c.md)** so that the rule condition and its enabled state will persist beyond the current session. A rule condition is only enabled after it has been saved successfully.

Returns an error if you attempt to enable a rule condition that is supported only on a rule of type  **olRuleSend** for a rule of type **olRuleReceive**, or vice versa. For more information on suppport by rules for receiving messages or rules for sending messages, see  [Specify Rule Conditions](812c131a-fe23-1b8b-5e2d-9459d7102630.md).

You cannot enable or disable a condition of type  **olConditionOtherMachine**. This type of rule condition indicates that the rule can run only on a specific computer that is not the current one. This happens when the rule is created on that computer and the rule condition  **olConditionLocalMachineOnly** is enabled, indicating that the rule can run only on that computer. When you run the same rule on another computer, the rule will show that the condition **olConditionOtherMachine** is enabled.

Returns an error if you attempt to enable an exception condition of type  **olConditionLocalMachineOnly**.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [RuleCondition Object](e03f91c2-2c08-b036-104a-d6246f28bc2d.md)
#### Other resources


 [RuleCondition Object Members](0dd281de-2c65-fd29-8409-b71151328c7f.md)
