
# CommandButton.Enabled Property (Outlook Forms Script)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Boolean** that specifies whether a control can receive the focus and respond to user-generated events. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Enabled**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **CommandButton** object.


## Remarks

 **True** is the control can receive the focus and respond to user-generated events, and is accessible through code (default). **False** if the user cannot interact with the control by using the mouse, keystrokes, accelerators, or hotkeys. The control is generally still accessible through code.

Use the  **Enabled** property to enable and disable controls. A disabled control appears dimmed, while an enabled control does not. Also, if a control displays a bitmap, the bitmap is dimmed whenever the control is dimmed.

The  **Enabled** and ** [Locked](6aefa476-162c-0191-cc29-ff65b446e400.md)** properties work together to achieve the following effects:


- If  **Enabled** and **Locked** are both **True**, the control can receive focus and appears normally (not dimmed) in the form. The user can copy, but not edit, data in the control.
    
- If  **Enabled** is **True** and **Locked** is **False**, the control can receive focus and appears normally in the form. The user can copy and edit data in the control.
    
- If  **Enabled** is **False** and **Locked** is **True**, the control cannot receive focus and is dimmed in the form. The user can neither copy nor edit data in the control.
    
- If  **Enabled** and **Locked** are both **False**, the control cannot receive focus and is dimmed in the form. The user can neither copy nor edit data in the control.
    


You can combine the settings of the  **Enabled** and the **TabStop** properties to prevent the user from selecting a ** [CommandButton](bb2bcfaa-e7a5-cedc-2ed7-bcc17a4d8fb6.md)** with TAB, while still allowing the user to click the button. Setting **TabStop** to **False** means that the **CommandButton** won't appear in the tab order. However, if **Enabled** is **True**, then the user can still click the command button, as long as  ** [TakeFocusOnClick](b8842b50-4be8-c366-8978-8a6c97907e33.md)** is set to **True**.

