
# Conversation.SetAlwaysMoveToFolder Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Sets a  ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object that indicates the folder to which all existing conversation items and new items that arrive in the conversation are always moved.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **SetAlwaysMoveToFolder**( **_MoveToFolder_**,  **_Store_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Conversation](2705d38a-ebc0-e5a7-208b-ffe1f5446b1b.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|MoveToFolder|Required| **Folder**|Specifies the folder to which all existing items and new items that arrive in the conversation are always moved.|
|Store|Required| **Store**|Specifies the store that contains the folder to which items of the conversation are moved.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **SetAlwaysMoveToFolder** method operates on conversation items in the delivery store specified by the _Store_ parameter. If the _Store_ parameter represents a non-delivery store such as an archive .pst store, the move action will apply to conversation items in the default delivery store.

If the  _MoveToFolder_ parameter specifies an invalid folder that does not exist, has been moved, or is read-only, Outlook will raise an error.

To stop the always-move-to-folder action for conversations items in a store, call the  ** [StopAlwaysMoveToFolder](3be830e9-ceea-369c-1f7b-966c68cfb8fd.md)** method.




 **Note**  Setting the Deleted Items folder as the MoveToFolder parameter in **SetAlwaysMoveToFolder** is not equivalent to calling ** [SetAlwaysDelete](f13fce28-864e-a607-304d-a3722845cdd8.md)** on the same store and conversation. Setting theMoveToFolder parameter to the Deleted Items folder results in the ** [GetAlwaysDelete](95843bf3-7fff-fab0-ca7b-014ba290d718.md)** method returning the value **olDoNotDelete**.

The  ** [BeforeItemMove](db75bc05-c80e-e6b8-d017-2150bc942712.md)** event of the **Folder** object occurs when you call **SetAlwaysMoveToFolder**.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example shows how to set the folder to which existing conversation items and new items that arrive in the conversation of a specific mail item are always moved. The code example,  `DemoSetAlwaysMoveToFolder`, chooses the first mail item displayed in the Reading Pane as the specific mail item, and the folder named "1-Reference" under the Inbox folder as the folder to move the conversation items to.  `DemoSetAlwaysMoveToFolder` verifies that conversations are enabled in the store for the selected mail item, obtains the conversation object for that mail item if a conversation exists, and uses **SetAlwaysMoveToFolder** to always move all existing conversation items and new items that arrive in the conversation to the specified folder.


```
Sub DemoSetAlwaysMoveToFolder() 
 Dim oMail As Outlook.MailItem 
 Dim oConv As Outlook.Conversation 
 Dim oStore As Outlook.Store 
 Dim oFolder As Outlook.Folder 
 
 ' Obtain a reference to the folder where conversation items will be moved. 
 Set oFolder = _ 
 Application.Session.GetDefaultFolder(olFolderInbox).Folders("1-Reference") 
 ' Get the Item displayed in the Reading Pane. 
 Set oMail = ActiveExplorer.Selection(1) 
 Set oStore = oFolder.Store 
 If oStore.IsConversationEnabled Then 
 Set oConv = oMail.GetConversation 
 If Not (oConv Is Nothing) Then 
 oConv.SetAlwaysMoveToFolder oFolder, oStore 
 End If 
 End If 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Conversation Object](2705d38a-ebc0-e5a7-208b-ffe1f5446b1b.md)
#### Other resources


 [Conversation Object Members](09ff1e8e-7c5a-0b1e-e8e2-e259f66f71c8.md)
