
# Account.GetAddressEntryFromID Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns an  ** [AddressEntry](d4a0a85e-8bab-bc56-57bc-d70c3c570c8e.md)** object that represents the address entry specified by the given entry ID.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **GetAddressEntryFromID**( **_ID_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  ** [Account](f624438c-4e45-2822-18b6-bfe8074a33c0.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ID|Required| **String**|Used to identify an address entry that is maintained for the session.|

### Return Value

An  **AddressEntry** that has the ** [ID](06c806f1-5ca8-c46e-399d-c307e9428866.md)** property that matches the specified _ID_.


## Remarks

This method is similar to the  ** [GetAddressEntryFromID](04e9d2c5-231d-35c8-eafa-0e58fbd7a2a1.md)** method of the ** [NameSpace](f0dcaa19-07f5-5d42-a3bf-2e42b7885644.md)** object, but has some additional contextual information about which account to use for the look-up. If there are multiple Microsoft Exchange accounts in the current profile, use the **GetAddressEntryFromID** method for the corresponding account.

The  **ID** property for an **AddressEntry** is a permanent, unique string identifier that the transport provider assigns when an **AddressEntry** is created. Outlook maintains a hierarchy of address books for a session, and the address entry that is returned must match the given ID and be in one of the address books.

 **GetAddressEntryFromID** returns an error if no item with the given ID can be found, if no connection is available, or if the user is set to work offline.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Account Object](f624438c-4e45-2822-18b6-bfe8074a33c0.md)
#### Other resources


 [Account Object Members](37759c57-d1ec-775c-cbe6-75c8f314d196.md)
