
# DocumentItem.BeforeRead Event (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Occurs before Microsoft Outlook begins to read the properties for the item.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **BeforeRead**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **DocumentItem** object.


## Remarks

The  **BeforeRead** event occurs before the ** [Read](da5e82e6-43b9-d040-e529-2388049a8e1b.md)** event. Unlike other events with the Before prefix, this event is not cancelable. To determine when the item is unloaded from memory, use the ** [Unload](e634c3f3-e637-f18c-0f7e-2e5cb18566a3.md)** event.

The  **BeforeRead** event corresponds to the Exchange Client Extensions (ECE) event **IExchExtMessageEvents::OnRead**.

Only the following members of the item object can be accessed in the  **BeforeRead** event:


-  ** [Class](68d7706f-2ce2-ccce-5a52-af12c888fe2d.md)**
    
-  ** [MessageClass](635ba15e-cacc-4e3e-0824-8ca4dfca2a82.md)**
    
-  **MAPIOBJECT**
    
The  **MAPIOBJECT** property is a hidden property in the Outlook object model. This property provides access to the underlying MAPI ** [IMessage](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc842097%28office.14%29.aspx)** object, and can be invoked only via the ** [IUnknown](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms680509%28VS.85%29.aspx)** interface. The property is accessible to programs written in languages such as C or C++ that support **IUnknown**.  **MAPIOBJECT** is not available through the ** [IDispatch](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms221608.aspx)** interface. Development languages such as Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), Visual C#, and Visual Basic support the **IDispatch** interface and not **IUnknown**, and therefore, they cannot access  **MAPIOBJECT**. If other properties or methods of the parent item are accessed in this event, Outlook raises an error.

If the implementer accesses the underlying  **IMessage** object and changes properties on that object, Outlook will render that item reflecting the changes to the **IMessage** object. The implementer does not have to call ** [SaveChanges](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc842181%28office.14%29.aspx)** on the **IMessage** object to cause the changes to be reflected in Outlook.

Implementers must release the object obtained from the  **MAPIOBJECT** property in the event before the event completes. Attempting to use that object outside the context of the event is unsupported and will lead to unpredictable behavior.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [DocumentItem Object](7b0a6af0-6632-3ff6-841f-5b081d0d68d8.md)
#### Other resources


 [DocumentItem Object Members](2c6d563b-39cb-9cb3-3bfe-93fe595325cf.md)
