
# TabStrip Object (Outlook Forms Script)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Presents a set of related controls as a visual group.

## Remarks

You can use a  **TabStrip** to view different sets of information for related controls.

A  **TabStrip** is a control that contains a collection of one or more tabs.

Each  ** [Tab](b5571953-0e47-a994-3e82-4e439a77afa8.md)** of a **TabStrip** is a separate object that users can select. Visually, a **TabStrip** also includes a client area that all the tabs in the **TabStrip** share.

By default, a  **TabStrip** includes two pages, called Tab1 and Tab2. Each of these is a **Tab** object, and together they represent the ** [Tabs](0b209e50-60c7-e991-f0fb-627dd17cb7ec.md)** collection of the **TabStrip**. If you add more pages, they become part of the same  **Tabs** collection.

For example, the controls might represent information about a daily schedule for a group of individuals, with each set of information corresponding to a different individual in the group. Set the title of each tab to show one individual's name. Then, you can write code that, after you click a tab, updates the controls to show information about the person identified on the tab.

The  **TabStrip** is implemented as a container of a **Tabs** collection, which in turn contains a group of **Tab** objects. The **TabStrip** control does not support the **Click** event.

The default property for a  **TabStrip** is the ** [SelectedItem](b9cc5495-b702-231b-52bb-69e86d8fcfb0.md)** property.

