
# ListBox.Selected Property (Outlook Forms Script)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Boolean** that indicates the selection state of items in a ** [ListBox](f56ba480-f8fe-6d12-265e-3b0a9838af97.md)**. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Selected**( **_pvargIndex_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ListBox** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|pvargIndex|Required| **Variant**|An integer with a range from 0 to one less than the number of items in the list.|

## Remarks

 **True** to indicate that the specified item is selected, **False** if it is not selected.

The  **Selected** property is useful when users can make multiple selections. You can use this property to determine the selected rows in a multi-select list box. You can also use this property to select or deselect rows in a list from code.

The default value of this property is based on the current selection state of the  **ListBox**.

For single-selection list boxes, the  ** [Value](571ea3ea-57ed-71e4-75a0-d5e0cf7b9211.md)** or ** [ListIndex](c3eb93ea-bc47-6c2c-f80d-c9b53f797ef3.md)** properties are recommended for getting and setting the selection. In this case, **ListIndex** returns the index of the selected item. However, in a multiple selection, **ListIndex** returns the index of the row contained within the focus rectangle, regardless of whether the row is actually selected.

When a list box control's  ** [MultiSelect](4ecc299b-0733-aa23-e820-f341ac80a0fa.md)** property is set to 0, only one row can have its **Selected** property set to **True**.

Entering a value that is out of range for the index does not generate an error message, but does not set a property for any item in the list.

