
# FormRegionStartup.GetFormRegionStorage Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Obtains appropriate storage for a form region based on the specified information.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **GetFormRegionStorage**( **_FormRegionName_**,  **_Item_**,  **_LCID_**,  **_FormRegionMode_**,  **_FormRegionSize_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an object that implements the  **FormRegionStartup** interface.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|FormRegionName|Required| **String**|The internal name of the form region. This can be indicated by the <name> tag in the corresponding form region XML manifest.|
|Item|Required| **Object**|The Outlook item object that caused the loading of the form region.|
|LCID|Required| **Long**|The current locale ID.|
|FormRegionMode|Required| ** [OlFormRegionMode](6fea8606-7465-0fdf-204d-f3562b6cc916.md)**|The mode that the form region is being loaded into.|
|FormRegionSize|Required| ** [OlFormRegionSize](a52c7e73-b6f1-ddb0-2307-55107912bc44.md)**|The type of form region being loaded, either adjoining or separate.|

### Return Value

A  **Variant** object representing the storage that Outlook has allocated for the form region. The type of the return value can be: **String** representing that the return value is a local path to an Outlook Form Storage (.OFS) file; **Byte()** representing that the return value is an array of bytes that contains the contents of the .OFS file; **IStorage** representing that the return value is a COM storage object **IStorage** (for C++ only); **Nothing** or **Null**, representing that Outlook could not allocate storage for this form region and will not load the form region.


## Remarks

The add-in must check for the return value of  **GetFormRegionStorage**. A form region will not load if any of the following is true of the returned storage:


- The returned storage is a .OFS file specified with a non-local path.
    
- The returned storage is a file but is not an .OFS file saved from the forms designer.
    


For examples of add-ins in C# and Visual Basic .NET that implement the  ** [FormRegionStartup](948ea6b7-2962-57e7-618d-fa0977b65651.md)** interface, see code sample downloads on MSDN.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [FormRegionStartup Interface](948ea6b7-2962-57e7-618d-fa0977b65651.md)
#### Other resources


 [FormRegionStartup Object Members](c45b60b8-5d7e-d84b-a60e-ffcb54c25569.md)
