
# Forms (Outlook How Do I)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

This topic links to help on widely used Forms tasks. To view other categories of popular tasks covered in Help, see  [How Do I ... in Outlook](3c33646d-e5c2-3103-b219-487ffe23357f.md).

## Form Regions


-  [How to: Create a Form Region](695b95a5-c795-cb4a-8d35-ba12b0007b1f.md)Describes at a conceptual level the considerations and steps for creating a form region.
    
-  [Walkthrough: Add a Form Region to an Existing Page on a Form](3c988dac-f171-966d-cf9a-17139353d604.md)A step-by-step walkthrough that describes how to add an adjoining form region to the General page of the standard Contact form.
    

## Manipulating Controls in VBScript


-  [How to: Accept User Input and Display the Values of Controls on a Form](5966b34a-7334-a82a-afbc-55d466c06d53.md)Describes how to let a user select a control and have its value displayed in the control.
    
-  [How to: Access a Page in a MultiPage Control](dd67169f-2f3e-c93d-b5c5-512e8e83bb7a.md)Describes how to access an individual page of a multi-page control.
    
-  [How to: Access a Tab in a TabStrip Control](29aba68e-7123-2c41-795f-7bdba8d1b89f.md)Describes how to access an individual tab of a tab strip control in several ways.
    
-  [How to: Add a Control to a MultiPage Control](9fd9a559-ece9-26dd-047c-c3c649347257.md)Describes how to add and remove a control to a page of a multi-page control.
    
-  [How to: Add a Control to a Page](154255a5-7fe7-3397-c239-73a52792c183.md)Describes how to add a control to a form at runtime.
    
-  [How to: Add and Remove Items from a List Box](4cff205b-4a15-d528-6ebd-adca6711a4d4.md)Describes how to add and delete the contents of a list box.
    
-  [How to: Add Items To a List or Combo Box at Run Time](5dd25eb3-8c36-3e71-30ae-b35638ef6943.md)Describes how to add items to a single-column list box or combo box, or a multi-column list box or combo box.
    
-  [How to: Add Scroll Bars to a Page and a Frame](2fdc2fb5-0ee8-b39e-f4a7-c898244b13ac.md)Describes how to add scroll bars to a page of a multi-page control and to a frame control.
    
-  [How to: Add, Cut, and Paste a Control on a Page](f20fb2d9-0ee2-2cf5-173c-9fdd6201bdca.md)Describes how to cut and paste a control from a page of a multi-page control.
    
-  [How to: Align the Caption of an Option Buttion with the Control](4331a16a-6d73-855a-68d3-ef1fee6145bc.md)Describes how to align the caption of an option button with the button.
    
-  [How to: Allow a Command Button to Take Focus Upon Clicking](7d4e4355-51cd-36cc-3e3c-18928f8cc03c.md)Describes how to control whether a command button receives the focus when the user clicks on it.
    
-  [How to: Allow Multiple Lines, Word Wrapping, and Scrolling in a Text Box](d478d32f-41b0-e64b-143a-3fac6f8b9624.md)Describes how to control multiple lines, word-wrapping, and scrolling in a text box.
    
-  [How to: Allow Multiple Selections in a List Box](da59a685-c118-00b1-8a08-b9d19a15aa77.md)Describes how to allow the user select one or more items in a list box.
    
-  [How to: Allow the Null State for a Check Box and a Toggle Button](75b3374d-6d96-3bcc-3e97-f0089f3fdd99.md)Describes how to allow Null as an acceptable value in a check box and a toggle button.
    
-  [How to: Automatically Size a Text Box with User Input](573c8112-4c65-2411-afba-a7233baaa9aa.md)Describes how to allow automatic sizing of a single-line text box and a mult-line text box upon user input.
    
-  [How to: Change the Accelerator and Caption of a Command Button](5f763d6a-e376-1088-04c8-fbd3a43de4e4.md)Describes how to assign an accelerator key and a caption to the control.
    
-  [How to: Change the Column Width of a Multi-Column List](ad79a33e-ec14-0f37-468b-de1b833f1f84.md)Describes how to change the column widths of a multi-column list box.
    
-  [How to: Change the Name of a Control](cc3adf8b-526b-9eed-aabd-34991be2a85e.md)Describes how to change the name of a check box.
    
-  [How to: Change the Order of Pages and Tabs](5180c30b-e5bb-48b9-ece7-02d5b8d41af0.md)Describes how to change the order of the pages and tabs in a multi-page and a tab strip control.
    
-  [How to: Change the Style, Size, and Effects of a Font](17225340-8da2-69b8-3255-d6c925f16aaf.md)Describes how to manipulate font properties of an object.
    
-  [How to: Control Character Matching in a Combo Box and List Box](09557015-d581-a09f-499e-86bd4211588e.md)Describes how to support character matching in a combo box and a list box.
    
-  [How to: Control the Drop Button Style and When to Show the Drop Button](899b839e-f67e-1533-c0b6-28206e9af74a.md)Demonstrates the different symbols that you can specify for a drop-down arrow in a combo box and a text box.
    
-  [How to: Control the Extent of Scrolling in a Scroll Bar](60a8eea3-9277-4db0-ffa8-5ad2a8adb0b4.md)Describes how to control the range of scrolling in a stand-alone scroll bar.
    

-  [How to: Control the Focus When the User Cycles through Controls in a Frame or MultiPage Control on a Form](c7d1ac62-3c11-040a-d0f2-1f3e04c89f15.md)Describes how to control the focus for a frame and two page objects in a multi-page control.
    
-  [How to: Control the Selection Behavior and Drag Behavior When Entering a Text Box](81d54db0-0bfe-3e21-b3ea-643980c8f48b.md)Demonstrates the different effects that you can provide when entering a control and when dragging information from one control to another.
    
-  [How to: Control the Style and Selection Behavior of a List Box](f4b7c003-55c4-4908-77d0-d6184f6ec786.md)Describes how to control the appearance of a list box.
    
-  [How to: Control the Text Box' Behavior on Clicking Enter](bc3329f9-b5f4-bbd9-19f1-8526342f406b.md)Describes how to control the effect of ENTER in a text box.
    
-  [How to: Cut Text from One Text Box and Paste it on Another](33339831-9567-6910-f596-6a9a398886e8.md)Describes how to cut text from one text box and paste it into another.
    
-  [How to: Display the List Portion of a Combo Box](9edcd472-eeaa-c7ef-7d15-369f50c9fe31.md)Describes how to display the list in a combo box.
    
-  [How to: Display the Name of Each Control on a Form or a Page of a MultiPage Control](503b16dd-51d8-450b-fa1f-0e114a3b9b04.md)Describes how to access individual controls in a collection of controls and in a collection of pages and display the name.
    
-  [How to: Display the Name of Each Control on a Page](109f6397-5b7f-bd8d-0ef5-ed0ba770bc5b.md)Describes how to display of each control on a form.
    
-  [How to: Display the Number of Pages and Tabs in MultiPage and TabStrip Controls on a Form](9d49b6b3-7650-d96e-9a47-00b508fc6006.md)Describes how to display the number of controls in a collection of controls, and the number of pages and tabs of each multi-page and tab strip control.
    
-  [How to: Enable and Lock a Text Box from User Entry](354918d6-90f2-7e3f-cd72-2fa7681372ef.md)Describes how to enable and lock a text box.
    
-  [How to: Enhance the Border Style, Color, and Special Effects of a Text Box Control](250de388-e1e8-98a6-95bd-df3ff3eb6a0a.md)Demonstrates the borders and special effects available for a text box.
    
-  [How to: Give a Control a 3-D Appearance Programmatically](7e701b10-4b28-aae9-9238-c12fa8e4f885.md)Describes how to give special effects to a check box.
    
-  [How to: Group Option Buttons](ecf72f77-585b-c493-bcc4-35eb4f11e62a.md)Describes how to create two groups of option button controls on the same form.
    
-  [How to: Hide or Show a Control Programmatically](c6cbadf7-7b10-81de-0abe-65b24c3f46d4.md)Describes how to hide or show a check box.
    
-  [How to: Move a Text Box in Front of or Behind Another Control](43e00491-39e4-5608-dc51-794be11ac721.md)Describes how to set the z-order of a text box, so the user can display the entire text box (by bringing it to the front of the z-order) or can place the text box behind other controls.
    
-  [How to: Move Controls on a Page](d50e7b95-016d-9ee7-533a-4a101e2316eb.md)Describes how to move all the controls on a form.
    
-  [How to: Place an Image and a Caption on a Command Button](f17ced22-bbab-87e0-ef3a-5450c55fa950.md)Shows the picture placement options for a control.
    
-  [How to: Reference a Custom Property that Has the Same Name as a Built-in Property of the Control](55b2f832-6c23-c43d-0253-1b73f745e1b6.md)Describes how to support a custom property that has the same name as a standard, built-in property of the control.
    
-  [How to: Reference the Parent Object of a Control](b870fcfb-0ff9-ad87-985e-61ef1362d449.md)Describes how to refer to the control, form, or other object that contains a specific control or object.
    
-  [How to: Resize a Control Horizontally and Vertically with the Form](67dfbd5d-98a8-41d1-a92f-56ae381d2e50.md)Describes how to resize a text box horizontally and vertically on a page.
    
-  [How to: Set Entry Matching in a Combo Box](1e47c76a-a152-30a4-96a6-f95122209ff1.md)Demonstrates additional character matching for a combo box.
    
-  [How to: Set the Item at the Top of a List and the Item that Has Focus in the List](3e44c81b-cf21-a1a8-dfc8-6063db095358.md)Describes how to identify the top item displayed in a list box and the item that has the focus within the list box.
    
-  [How to: Set the Height and Width of Tabs in a MultiPage and a TabStrip Control](4d351a3d-334e-5356-7a2d-6c7b11655319.md)Describes how to set the size of the tabs used in a multi-page and a tab strip control.
    
-  [How to: Set the Input Style for a Combo Box](3cc10ca8-4c9a-93e5-da88-460198c48c48.md)Describes how to change the style of user input of a combo box.
    
-  [How to: Set the Maximum and Minimum Values for a Scroll Bar](45312fc9-6c40-2dcc-175c-2a64ea635cc8.md)Describes how to set the maximum and minimum values for a stand-alone scroll bar.
    
-  [How to: Set the Number of Lines and the Length of Input in a Text Box](1b56aff7-ab6f-b595-781d-a60d0dffe7a9.md)Describes how to set the characters and the number of lines of text in a text box.
    
-  [How to: Set the Style of Tabs for a MultiPage and a TabStrip Control](abaeceb2-d8fd-92a5-8d54-eab94d9de394.md)Describes how to specify the appearance of the tabs in multi-page and tab strip control.
    
-  [How to: Set the Tab Order of Controls in a Frame](6525530b-e9a3-4285-30c5-0b9dd0e289d8.md)Describes how to display and set the tab order for individual controls in a frame.
    
-  [How to: Set the Type of Mouse Pointer for a List Box](0db05edd-682f-cdc0-523e-c48e1a249017.md)Describes how to specify a mouse pointer that is appropriate for a specific control or scenario.
    
-  [How to: Set the Width of the Drop-Down List of a Combo Box](0e36a1fa-482a-9016-9a32-265193bb741e.md)Describes how to control the width of the drop-down list of a combo box.
    
-  [How to: Simulate a Two-Dimensional Array with List Boxes](da0dd724-ff6e-04e0-c421-6011bffa750e.md)Describes how to load a two-dimensional array with data and, in turn, load two list box controls.
    
-  [How to: Specify Additional Information for a Control](dcbdfec2-ae0c-27d7-6713-9c99fa6e82d6.md)Describes how to store additional information about each control on a form.
    
-  [How to: Specify Control Tip Text for Controls](50ea26b3-763b-beed-6f06-30afbd205f02.md)Describes how to specify control tip text for three command button controls and two page objects in a multi-page control.
    
-  [How to: Specify Possible Values for a List Box](25ced223-0a3c-162a-127f-6b2f3ee9c5bc.md)Describes how to specify possible values that are supported by a list box.
    
-  [How to: Specify Tab Support for a Control](e4b453a2-a0e2-63f0-3d93-a46e842fbbd6.md)Describes how to control whether a user can press TAB to move the focus to a particular control on a form.
    
-  [How to: Specify the Column in a Multi-Column List Box to Display to the User](f56b48b4-8ea7-8b77-99a1-0b522f0c9db3.md)Describes how to identify the column of data in a multi-column list box that is to be displayed.
    
-  [How to: Specify the Column in a Multi-Column List Box to Store Data for the Control](11481d20-6c2c-2dfb-4afe-fdc4a4e1563c.md)Describes how to identify the column in a multi-column list box that is to store data for the list box.
    
-  [How to: Specify the Number of Rows in a Combo Box](53486763-8dbf-dddf-7108-fe187f06b593.md)Describes how to control the number of rows in the drop-down list of a combo box.
    
-  [How to: Swap Columns of a Multicolumn List Box](5d6fb3f2-161e-eeb6-1d0c-dc4d4670214b.md)Describes how to swap columns of a multi-column list box.
    
-  [How to: Undo and Redo an Action in a Text Box or a Combo Box](5edb515c-d035-e8a3-8c0b-f2ddc74378fd.md)Describes how to undo or redo text editing within a text box or within the text area of a combo box.
    
-  [How to: Use the Controls Collection to Move Controls on a Page](19170632-76c6-3ca9-d7ea-f68323d878a6.md)Describes how to move controls within a controls collection on a page.
    
