
# NavigationModule Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a navigation module in the Navigation Pane.

## Remarks

The  **NavigationModule** object provides access to the various navigation modules that are displayed in the Microsoft Outlook Navigation Pane. The following objects are derived from the **NavigationModule** object:


-  ** [CalendarModule](9203024d-9cef-75e0-600f-f3899e24761a.md)**
    
-  ** [ContactsModule](fb183bd5-c72f-b38f-97e3-209a2a463d24.md)**
    
-  ** [JournalModule](5a696d10-8a10-c01d-cf65-f8a65718f120.md)**
    
-  ** [MailModule](df20efe5-be5c-952d-c6b7-20c20a83fda0.md)**
    
-  ** [NotesModule](cdbdde08-0773-a78d-3809-a3811975bcc1.md)**
    
-  ** [TasksModule](fc6ae6c9-6b13-b5f2-9506-c3dbbe709df6.md)**
    
-  ** [SolutionsModule](4597765e-a95d-bf07-2ac4-103218ebc696.md)**
    
 Use the ** [GetNavigationModule](7c1a1313-94a4-fa68-7e70-66d85496fec0.md)** method or the ** [Item](ee8fdd9c-2b94-29c3-7622-f6e5c8c5399c.md)** method of the ** [NavigationModules](4b0743d3-0a21-488c-27b2-31ae07129a61.md)** collection for the parent ** [NavigationPane](b6538c72-6115-99fc-c926-e0532a747823.md)** object to retrieve a **NavigationModule** object, then use the ** [NavigationModuleType](ee1fc78a-9720-c8d0-964c-0178ddbe8af6.md)** property of the **NavigationModule** object to retrieve the module type. Depending on the value of the **NavigationModuleType** property, you can then cast the **NavigationModule** object reference as one of the objects listed in the previous paragraph to access the ** [NavigationGroups](2f19eceb-24e6-a55c-7013-c840bd0c9fbb.md)** property for that object, such as a **CalendarModule** object.

The  **Shortcuts** and **Folder List** navigation modules do not have a corresponding object, such as **MailModule**, because they do not support programmatic access to navigation groups or navigation folders. You can use the  **NavigationModule** object to access the properties of the **Shortcuts** and **Folder List** modules.

You can use the  ** [Visible](d0c15353-5e29-5ff6-ac1d-e139b46f2adb.md)** property to determine whether the navigation module is visible, and use the ** [Position](cdf7eedb-18a4-028c-8663-eae70e466617.md)** property to return or set the display position of the navigation module within the Navigation Pane. You can also use the ** [Name](b02dfa63-01f0-f0e3-95fd-c928aace6cd8.md)** property to return the display name of the navigation module in the Navigation Pane.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [NavigationModule Object Members](b51f4e81-2867-d59e-aeb5-ecab18367eb1.md)
