
# Store.IsDataFileStore Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns a  **Boolean** that indicates if the ** [Store](1eb22fe9-8849-7476-5388-2515b48591b9.md)** is a store for an Outlook data file, which is either a Personal Folders File (.pst) or an Offline Folder File (.ost). Read-only.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **IsDataFileStore**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Store** object.


## Remarks

 **IsDataFileStore** supports only Exchange stores, and will return **False** for HTTP-type stores such as Hotmail and MSN, and for IMAP stores.

For Exchange stores,  **IsDataFileStore** will return **False** if the user profile is not using Cached Exchange mode. **IsDataFileStore** will also return **False** when the store is an Exchange Public Folder (that is, ** [Store.ExchangeStoreType](ca6002bd-444d-a111-adca-6f8fafc37ea1.md)** is **olExchangePublicFolder**).

 **IsDataFileStore** does not indicate whether the store is located on a local hard drive. For example, a .pst file could be located on a mapped network drive and **IsDataFileStore** would still return **True**.

The return value of  **IsDataFileStore** can change if the user is configured for classic Exchange offline mode. When the user is offline and using classic Exchange offline mode, **IsDataFileStore** will return **True**. When the user is online and using classic Exchange online mode,  **IsDataFileStore** will return **False**.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Store Object](1eb22fe9-8849-7476-5388-2515b48591b9.md)
#### Other resources


 [Store Object Members](84c1d423-e507-0b3b-6570-33829b94be04.md)
