
# Top Property (Outlook Controls)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Single** that represents the distance between a control and the top edge of the form that contains it. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Top**

 _expression_A variable that represents an Outlook control object.


## Remarks

Setting the  ** [Left](1fe354f7-5a4e-ba65-c12c-13498a22bdc2.md)** or **Top** property to 0 places the control's edge at the left or top edge of its container.

For most systems, the recommended range of values for  **Left** and **Top** is from -32,767 to +32,767. Other values may also work depending on your system configuration. For an ** [OlkComboBox](8d5e2f25-2962-af28-2523-b7b82473ea0a.md)** control, values of **Left** and **Top** apply to the text box portion of the control, not to the list portion. When you move or size a control, its new **Left** setting is automatically entered in the property sheet.

The  ** [Height](370ce19c-d0d7-3445-9e20-4f6120c40a44.md)** and ** [Width](4457662c-930b-3849-d924-1607b35d8338.md)** properties are automatically updated when you move or size a control. If you specify a setting for the **Left** or **Top** property that is less than zero, that value will be used to calculate the height or width of the control, but a portion of the control will not be visible on the form.

If you move a control from one part of a form to another, the setting of  **Height** or **Width** only changes if you size the control as you move it. The settings of the control's **Left** and **Top** properties will change to reflect the control's new position relative to the edges of the form that contains it.

