
# OptionButton Object (Outlook Forms Script)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Shows the selection status of one item in a group of choices.

## Remarks

Use an  **OptionButton** to show whether a single item in a group is selected. Note that each **OptionButton** in a ** [Frame](5fb494d3-8e00-852a-c361-0e99358b1ce8.md)** is mutually exclusive.

If an  **OptionButton** is bound to a data source, the **OptionButton** can show the value of that data source as either Yes/No, True/False, or On/Off. If the user selects the **OptionButton**, the current setting is Yes, True, or On. If the user does not select the  **OptionButton**, the setting is No, False, or Off. For example, an  **OptionButton** in an inventory-tracking application might show whether an item is discontinued. If the **OptionButton** is bound to a data source, then changing the setting changes the value of that data source. A disabled **OptionButton** is dimmed and does not show a value.

Depending on the value of the  ** [TripleState](7643b4e7-1743-befd-9894-bee351296b79.md)** property, an **OptionButton** can also have a **Null** value.

You can also use an  **OptionButton** inside a group box to select one or more of a group of related items. For example, you can create an order form with a list of available items, with an **OptionButton** preceding each item. The user can select a particular item by checking the corresponding **OptionButton** **OptionButton**.

The default property for an  **OptionButton** is the ** [Value](2ab8a0e5-2b82-5542-3343-2b4599141ef8.md)** property.

