
# SolutionsModule.AddSolution Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Adds a solution root folder and its subfolders to the  **Solutions** module.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **AddSolution**( **_Solution_**,  **_Scope_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [SolutionsModule](4597765e-a95d-bf07-2ac4-103218ebc696.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Solution|Required| ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)**|Specifies the solution root folder to add to the  **Solutions** module.|
|Scope|Required| ** [OlSolutionScope](ed45d06e-222f-4abe-5e8e-c44a0a049d6c.md)**|Specifies whether to display the folders that are in the solution only in the  **Solutions** module and the **Folder List**, or to display them in their respective default modules in the Navigation Pane as well.|

## Remarks

If the  **AddSolution** method succeeds and no solution root folder previously existed under the **Solutions** module, Microsoft Outlook displays the **Solutions** module in the NavigationPane.

You cannot add the following folders to the  **Solutions** module as a solution root folder:


- A folder that Outlook displays on the Navigation Pane, as defined by the  ** [OlDefaultFolders](1a17abd8-09b9-d3e1-2d93-0a4d5580a950.md)** enumeration.
    
- A special folder, as defined by the  ** [OlSpecialFolders](31f32a19-9695-3de4-ef3f-fe763a6f878e.md)** enumeration.
    
- Any folder on a Microsoft Exchange Server public folder store. The  ** [ExchangeStoreType](ca6002bd-444d-a111-adca-6f8fafc37ea1.md)** property on the ** [Store](347d3031-01cf-a248-4abc-f749feb811a4.md)** object for this folder is **olExchangePublicFolder**.
    
- A hidden folder. A hidden folder is one whose MAPI property,  **PR_ATTR_HIDDEN**, is  **True** or one that is not in the IPM Subtree.
    


This method also returns an error if the folder that you specify already exists as a root folder or a subfolder in the  **Solutions** module, or if the folder is a parent folder of a folder in the **Solutions** module.

If the  _Scope_ parameter is set to **olShowInDefaultModules** of the **OlSolutionScope** enumeration, the solution root and its subfolders are displayed in their respective default modules as well as the **Solutions** module. If the _Scope_ parameter is set to **olHideInDefaultModules**, the solution root and its subfolders are displayed in the  **Solutions** module.

Solution folders are always displayed in the  **Folder List** module.

By default, Outlook displays the  **Solutions** module after the **Tasks** module, provided that the navigation modules are in the default order - **Mail**,  **Calendar**,  **Contacts**, and  **Tasks**. If the Navigation Pane is expanded, the  **Solutions** module is also initially displayed as an expanded module. If the **Tasks** module is not displayed, the **Solutions** module is displayed after the last expanded module in the Navigation Pane.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [SolutionsModule Object](4597765e-a95d-bf07-2ac4-103218ebc696.md)
#### Other resources


 [SolutionsModule Object Members](8537b2d4-07cb-9e40-a87b-ff12d304f809.md)
