
# Recipient Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a user or resource in Outlook, generally a mail or mobile message addressee.

## Remarks

Use the  ** [Recipients](7cfad374-519e-4312-9050-8a8b66b3911e.md)**( _index_) method, where  _index_ is the name or index number, to return a single **Recipient** object. The name can be a string that represents the display name, the alias, the full SMTP e-mail address, or the mobile phone number of the recipient. A good practice is to use the SMTP e-mail address for a mail message, and the mobile phone number for a mobile message.

Use the  ** [Add](7c285291-0f92-ca8d-1c7b-a71ace83ac84.md)**method to create a new  **Recipient** object and add it to the ** [Recipients](774f56b7-4de8-9584-60cd-4fbf361f4c85.md)**object. The  ** [Type](3bdc616c-f008-ec95-0a92-0f704eedee34.md)**property of a new  **Recipient** object is set to the default value for the associated ** [AppointmentItem](204a409d-654e-27aa-643a-8344c631b82d.md)**,  ** [JournalItem](6e850295-39f9-47b8-e866-9622e9958c69.md)**,  ** [MailItem](14197346-05d2-0250-fa4c-4a6b07daf25f.md)**,  ** [MeetingItem](b75730f5-b395-3d66-5acd-b64fd8fcd78f.md)**, or  ** [TaskItem](5df8cfa5-5460-a5a1-a130-ba5bca1a0091.md)**object and must be reset to indicate another recipient type.


## Example



The following Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example creates a new  **MailItem** object and adds Jon Grande as the recipient by using the default type ("To").




```
Set myItem = Application.CreateItem(olMailItem) 
 
Set myRecipient = myItem.Recipients.Add ("Jon Grande")
```

The following VBA example creates the same  **MailItem** object as the preceding example, and then changes the type of the **Recipient** object from the default (To) to CC.




```
Set myItem = Application.CreateItem(olMailItem) 
 
Set myRecipient = myItem.Recipients.Add ("Jon Grande") 
 
myRecipient.Type = olCC
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [How to: Obtain the E-mail Address of a Recipient](b645c227-a7d2-2861-3bf7-4190a19abe81.md)
 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [Recipient Object Members](70e34018-95de-7fcf-1331-9be61a8675a2.md)
