
# AddressEntry.GetFreeBusy Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns a  **String** value that represents the availability of the individual user for a period of 30 days from the start date, beginning at midnight of the date specified.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **GetFreeBusy**( **_Start_**,  **_MinPerChar_**,  **_CompleteFormat_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns an  **AddressEntry** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Start|Required| **Date**|Specifies the date.|
|MinPerChar|Required| **Long**|Specifies the length of each time slot in minutes. The default value is 30.|
|CompleteFormat|Optional| **Variant**|Specifies a  **Boolean** value that represents the level of information returned for each time slot. The default value is **False**.|

### Return Value

A String value that represents the availability of the user for the specified period. The string value contains one character for each time slot within the specified period.


## Remarks


 **Note**  If an address entry represents a distribution list, the status of its individual members cannot be returned to you with the  **GetFreeBusy** method. A meeting request should be sent only to single messaging users. You can determine if a messaging user is a distribution list by determining if its ** [DisplayType](d61f5e35-d4d7-17c7-08e3-c0c1e3ce3f1f.md)** property is **olDistList** or **olPrivateDistList**.

The contents of the string returned by this method are determined by the CompleteFormat parameter.

If CompleteFormat is set to **False**, the default value, the string returned by this method contains one of the following characters for each time slot:



| **Character**| **Description**|
|0|The time slot represents a free period.|
|1|The time slot represents a tentative, out of office (OOF), or busy period.|
If CompleteFormat is set to **True**, the string returned by this method contains one of the following characters for each time slot:



| **Character**| **Description**|
|0|The time slot represents a free period.|
|1|The time slot represents a tentative period.|
|2|The time slot represents a busy period.|
|3|The time slot represents an out of office (OOF) period.|

## See also


#### Concepts


 [AddressEntry Object](d4a0a85e-8bab-bc56-57bc-d70c3c570c8e.md)
#### Other resources


 [AddressEntry Object Members](74c88069-aec4-952b-556f-03873fbb488b.md)
