
# Conversation.GetAlwaysDelete Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns a constant in the  ** [OlAlwaysDeleteConversation](5302003d-b227-5b0b-a8ec-52c107defc97.md)** enumeration that indicates whether all new items that join the conversation are always moved to the **Deleted Items** folder in the specified delivery store.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **GetAlwaysDelete**( **_Store_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Conversation](2705d38a-ebc0-e5a7-208b-ffe1f5446b1b.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Store|Required| ** [Store](1eb22fe9-8849-7476-5388-2515b48591b9.md)**|Specifies the store that holds the  **Deleted Items** folder to which items of the conversation are moved.|

### Return Value

A constant from the  **OlAlwaysDeleteConversation** enumeration that indicates whether all new items of the conversation are always moved to the Deleted Items folder of the specified delivey store.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 If the _Store_ parameter specifies a non-delivery store such as an archive .pst store, the **GetAlwaysDelete** method returns a constant from **OlAlwaysDeleteConversation** that applies to conversation items in the default delivery store. Items on a non-delivery store are not moved to the **Deleted Items** folder for the default delivery store.

If  **GetAlwaysDelete** returns **olAlwaysDelete**, items of the conversation are always moved to the  **Deleted Items** folder for the store that contains the items. In a cross-store conversation, items are moved to the **Deleted Items** folder for the store that contains the items. When **GetAlwaysDelete** returns **olAlwaysDelete**, the  ** [GetAlwaysMoveToFolder](ecad049d-338b-d5e0-f241-a9dddaeae316.md)** method returns a folder object that represents the **Deleted Items** folder for the default store.

If  **GetAlwaysDelete** returns **olAlwaysDeleteUnsupported**, the specified store does not support the action of always moving items to the  **Deleted Items** folder of that store.

If  **GetAlwaysDelete** returns **olDoNotDelete**, new items that arrive in the conversation are not moved to the  **Deleted Items** folder on the specified delivery store, and existing conversation items in the **Deleted Items** folder are moved to the **Inbox**.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Application (VBA) example shows how to verify the always-delete setting of the conversation of a selected mail item. The code example,  `DemoGetAlwaysDelete`, verifies that conversations are enabled in the default store, obtains the conversation that involves the first mail item displayed in the Reading Pane if a conversation exists, uses  **GetAlwaysDelete** to obtain the always-delete setting, and displays the setting.


```
Sub DemoGetAlwaysDelete() 
 
 Dim oMail As Outlook.MailItem 
 
 Dim oConv As Outlook.Conversation 
 
 Dim oStore As Outlook.Store 
 
 Dim intValue As Integer 
 
 
 
 ' Get the item displayed in Reading Pane. 
 
 Set oMail = ActiveExplorer.Selection(1) 
 
 
 
 If Application.Session.DefaultStore.IsConversationEnabled Then 
 
 Set oConv = oMail.GetConversation 
 
 If Not (oConv Is Nothing) Then 
 
 intValue = _ 
 
 oConv.GetAlwaysDelete(Application.session.DefaultStore) 
 
 If intValue = _ 
 
 Outlook.OlAlwaysDeleteConversation.olAlwaysDelete Then 
 
 Debug.Print "olAlwaysDelete" 
 
 ElseIf intValue = _ 
 
 Outlook.OlAlwaysDeleteConversation.olAlwaysDeleteUnsupported Then 
 
 Debug.Print "olAlwaysDeleteUnsupported" 
 
 ElseIf intValue = _ 
 
 Outlook.OlAlwaysDeleteConversation.olDoNotDelete Then 
 
 Debug.Print "olDoNotDelete" 
 
 End If 
 
 End If 
 
 End If 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Conversation Object](2705d38a-ebc0-e5a7-208b-ffe1f5446b1b.md)
#### Other resources


 [Conversation Object Members](09ff1e8e-7c5a-0b1e-e8e2-e259f66f71c8.md)
