
# Explorer.IsItemSelectableInView Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns a value that indicates whether the specified Microsoft Outlook item can be selected in the current view of the active explorer.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **IsItemSelectableInView**( **_Item_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  ** [Explorer](026591e5-049f-503a-4166-34e6dbc225fb.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Item|Required| **Object**|The item that is being considered for selection.|

### Return Value

A  **Boolean** value that indicates whether the specified item can be selected in the current view.


## Remarks

Returns  **True** if the item can be selected in the current view; otherwise returns **False**.

 The method returns **True** or **False** depending on whether the item is selectable in the view. It does not indicate whether the item is visible in the view. If the item is contained within a collapsed group in the view, the method returns **False**.

If in-cell editing is turned on for the current view for the active explorer and in-cell editing is in progress on the item, the method returns  **False**. If the current view is a table view, you can check for in-cell editing by using the  ** [AllowInCellEditing](dc6fa249-405f-6262-b085-53da15ba3d72.md)** property of the ** [TableView](026e27f8-1655-060d-e8cc-87eaaf4f1510.md)** object. Similarly, if the current view is a card view, you can use the ** [AllowInCellEditing](e33da36e-d56e-6001-41e1-d923c0d3e450.md)** property of the ** [CardView](cdac229b-f2b6-9ecb-e1a7-b53509426570.md)** object.

When you specify an item in a recurring appointment or task as argument to the  **IsItemSelectableInView** method, make sure that before you pass the argument, you obtain an instance of the occurrence by first expanding the recurrences, using the ** [IncludeRecurrences](7d192112-889c-56ce-aab2-107d751c80c4.md)** property and the ** [Items](3a99730b-e62a-5ca6-f6ec-911c95173242.md)** collection. If you do not expand the recurrences and obtain an occurrence in the series, you would be passing an instance variable that represents the appointment or task series, and the **IsItemSelectableInView** method would be operating on the series instead of the occurrence.

The  **IsItemSelectableInView** method raises an error if the current view is a conversation view.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Explorer Object](026591e5-049f-503a-4166-34e6dbc225fb.md)
#### Other resources


 [Explorer Object Members](4412c507-4dcd-6005-b9c8-11824624250d.md)
