
# NavigationFolder.IsSelected Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Boolean** variable that indicates whether the ** [NavigationFolder](c8d7aabb-58ba-df5e-ccdc-06f73db7726c.md)** object is selected for display. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **IsSelected**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **NavigationFolder** object.


## Remarks

Navigation folders contained in a  **Calendar** navigation module are treated differently than navigation folders in other navigation modules.

If the active explorer uses the  **Day/Week/Month** or **Day/Week/Month View with AutoPreview** view to display navigation folders in the **Calendar** navigation module, this property returns **True** if the navigation folder is checked in the Navigation Pane (and is therefore displayed either in side-by-side or overlay mode in the active explorer.) Setting this property to **False** removes a calendar from display in the active explorer. An error occurs if this property is set to **True** for more than 30 navigation folders.

If the active explorer uses another view, such as the  **All Appointments** view, to display navigation folders in the **Calendar** navigation module, or in navigation modules other than the **Calendar** navigation module, this property returns **True** if the navigation folder is selected and currently displayed in the active explorer; otherwise, the property returns **False**. 

In either case, an error occurs if the value of this property is set to  **False** for all **NavigationFolder** objects in the parent ** [NavigationFolders](ecff93b8-0c3f-5f31-5b61-c46d2622d2af.md)** collection, or if the **NavigationFolder** object is contained by a navigation module other than the navigation module currently displayed in the Navigation Pane.

The  ** [SelectedChange](eb55ed92-1925-9aaa-8fd6-9280cfc8aa47.md)** event for the parent **NavigationFolders** collection is raised if the value of this property is changed for a **NavigationFolder** object in a **Calendar** navigation module, regardless of the current view.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [NavigationFolder Object](c8d7aabb-58ba-df5e-ccdc-06f73db7726c.md)
#### Other resources


 [NavigationFolder Object Members](1ec2e16d-c7ca-86b1-9283-839a2b9aca05.md)
