
# MultiPage Object (Outlook Forms Script)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Presents multiple screens of information as a single set.

## Remarks

A  **MultiPage** is useful when you work with a large amount of information that can be sorted into several categories. For example, use a **MultiPage** to display information from an employment application. One page might contain personal information such as name and address; another page might list previous employers; a third page might list references. The **MultiPage** lets you visually combine related information, while keeping the entire record readily accessible.

New pages are added to the right of the currently selected page rather than adjacent to it.

A  **MultiPage** is a control that contains a collection of one or more pages.

Each  ** [Page](836941c3-c768-151a-65a5-41c71493033a.md)** of a **MultiPage** is a form that contains its own controls, and as such, can have a unique layout. Typically, the pages in a **MultiPage** have tabs so the user can select the individual pages.

By default, a  **MultiPage** includes two pages, called Page1 and Page2. Each of these is a **Page** object, and together they represent the ** [Pages](20a5339d-1dc7-9b61-d725-d13db72c5f65.md)** collection of the **MultiPage**. If you add more pages, they become part of the same  **Pages** collection.

The default property for a  **MultiPage** is the ** [Value](0d4320c3-4d9b-4b4a-b7ec-3402af49c495.md)** property, which returns the index of the currently active **Page** in the **Pages** collection of the **MultiPage**.

The  **MultiPage** control does not support the ** [Click](c303656d-1c91-1189-388c-7b103b83eb4a.md)** event.

