
# Stores.BeforeStoreRemove Event (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Occurs when a  ** [Store](1eb22fe9-8849-7476-5388-2515b48591b9.md)** is about to be removed from the current session either programmatically or through user action.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **BeforeStoreRemove**( **_Store_**,  **_Cancel_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Stores** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Store|Required| **Store**|The  **Store** object to be removed from the current session.|
|Cancel|Required| **Boolean**| **True** to cancel the removal of the specified store, **False** otherwise.|

## Remarks

Outlook must be running in order for this event to fire. This event will fire when any of the following occurs:


- A store is removed by the user clicking the  **Close** command on the Shortcut menu.
    
- A store is removed programmatically by calling  ** [Namespace.RemoveStore](4353387a-0e44-1d4a-b0e6-96e2c2594a6d.md)**.
    


This event will not fire when any of the following occurs:


- When Outlook shuts down and closes a primary or delegate store.
    
- If a store is removed through the  **Mail** applet in the Microsoft Windows Control Panel and Outlook is not running.
    
- A delegate store is removed on the  **Advanced** tab of the **Microsoft Exchange Server** dialog box.
    
- A store is removed through the  **Data Files** tab of the **Account Manager** dialog box when Outlook is not running.
    
- An IMAP Store is removed from the profile.
    


You can use this event to determine that a store has been removed, and take appropriate actions if the store is required for your application (such as remounting the store). Otherwise you would have to resort to polling the  ** [Stores](8915a8e4-9c22-21d5-c492-051d393ce5f7.md)** collection.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Stores Object](8915a8e4-9c22-21d5-c492-051d393ce5f7.md)
#### Other resources


 [Stores Object Members](f3fec99a-54b2-c13e-d96a-c8c5e2429f99.md)
