
# Adding Columns to a Table Object

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Outlook 2013_

This topic describes how to add columns to a  ** [Table](0affaafd-93fe-227a-acee-e09a86cadc20.md)** object.

To obtain an initial  **Table** object, use ** [Folder.GetTable](08d184cb-0c41-01b1-abc5-305476380f8b.md)** or ** [Search.GetTable](3aba6b77-73a3-9620-9c18-b2e03c7b63bc.md)**. The returned  **Table** object always contains a default set of properties depending on the folder type of the parent folder. If you want to change the columns in a **Table**, start with the  **Table** object returned from a prior **GetTable** call. Use ** [Table.Columns](57005ab1-ad49-296d-5b34-24dfd8f0987f.md)** to obtain the ** [Columns](628bf0cf-4ee8-5e5c-09d7-89d7adf256ca.md)** object, and call ** [Columns.Add](d438cfeb-629f-4234-6f4f-ffa086ef9a41.md)**,  ** [Columns.Remove](f567879c-f37a-2b65-b4a5-832b6f3acdf8.md)**, or  ** [Columns.RemoveAll](e9923548-9c75-e5dd-0643-3c42cd112352.md)**. As a result of the call on the  **Columns** object, the parent **Table** object is updated.

 **Note**  Each of these calls on the  **Columns** object adjusts the columns in the parent **Table**. The rows in the  **Table** however remain the same as before the call. You do not call **GetTable** subsequently to obtain an updated **Table**.  **GetTable** always returns a **Table** with the default set of columns for that folder type.

Since a folder can contain heterogeneous items (for example, the Deleted Items folder), you can use  **Columns.Add** to add columns that do not apply to all rows in that Table. In such cases, ** [Row.Item](fa9a6b26-ddfe-f306-5f45-140756f398c9.md)** would return an error indicating that an object could not be found for the row at the specific column. Consequently, before you access other column values in a **Table**, you should first check for the  **MessageClass** of a row (by calling `Row.Item("MessageClass")`) to determine which columns in the  **Table** apply to that row.

 **Note**  Since the  **Item** method is the default method for the ** [Row](06db3fa4-1649-48bf-3b86-ffdf99a47305.md)** object, `Row.Item("MessageClass")` is equivalent to `Row("MessageClass")`.

