
# ListBox.ListIndex Property (Outlook Forms Script)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Variant** that represents the currently selected item in a ** [ListBox](f56ba480-f8fe-6d12-265e-3b0a9838af97.md)**. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **ListIndex**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ListBox** object.


## Remarks

The  **ListIndex** property contains an index of the selected row in a list. Values of **ListIndex** range from -1 to one less than the total number of rows in a list (that is, ** [ListCount](1a06637a-8c23-e7a5-f7e4-7a04dcb227fc.md)** - 1). When no rows are selected, **ListIndex** returns -1. When the user selects a row in a **ListBox** or **ComboBox**, the system sets the  **ListIndex** value. The **ListIndex** value of the first row in a list is 0, the value of the second row is 1, and so on.

If you use the  ** [MultiSelect](4ecc299b-0733-aa23-e820-f341ac80a0fa.md)** property to create a **ListBox** that allows multiple selections, the ** [Selected](653a977d-5ef8-0bd8-d851-927f03942a2c.md)** property of the **ListBox** (rather than the **ListIndex** property) identifies the selected rows. The **Selected** property is an array with the same number of values as the number of rows in the **ListBox**. For each row in the list box,  **Selected** is **True** if the row is selected and **False** if it is not. In a **ListBox** that allows multiple selections, **ListIndex** returns the index of the row that has focus, regardless of whether that row is currently selected.

The  **ListIndex** value is also available by setting the ** [BoundColumn](1ff447f0-7ae5-c90e-2fb9-0e4c280a7564.md)** property to 0 for a list box. If **BoundColumn** is 0, the underlying data source to which the list box is bound contains the same list index value as **ListIndex**.

