
# Conversation.StopAlwaysDelete Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Stops the action of always moving conversation items in the specified store to the Deleted Items folder in that store.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **StopAlwaysDelete**( **_Store_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Conversation](2705d38a-ebc0-e5a7-208b-ffe1f5446b1b.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Store|Required| ** [Store](1eb22fe9-8849-7476-5388-2515b48591b9.md)**|Specifies the store to which the stop-always-delete action applies.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If the always-delete action has not been turned on,  **StopAlwaysDelete** does not carry out any action.

If the always-delete action has been turned on (by calling the  [SetAlwaysDelete](f13fce28-864e-a607-304d-a3722845cdd8.md) method, **StopAlwaysDelete** moves existing conversation items in the Deleted Items folder to the Inbox.

After calling the  **StopAlwaysDelete** method for a conversation in a store, calling the ** [GetAlwaysDelete](95843bf3-7fff-fab0-ca7b-014ba290d718.md)** method on that conversation and store returns the constant **olDoNotDelete**.

If the store specified by the  _Store_ parameter represents a non-delivery store such as an archive .pst store, the stop-always-delete action is applied to conversation items in the default delivery store.

Calling this method on a conversation that is already in the Deleted Items folder in the specified store returns an error.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example shows how to stop the always-delete action for the conversation of a specific mail item. The code example,  `DemoStopAlwaysDelete`, chooses the first mail item displayed in the Reading Pane as the specific mail item.  `DemoStopAlwaysDelete` verifies that conversations are enabled on the store for the mail item, obtains the conversation that involves that mail item if a conversation exists, and uses **SetAlwaysDelete** to stop the always-delete action for that conversation on that store.


```
Sub DemoStopAlwaysDelete() 
 Dim oMail As Outlook.MailItem 
 Dim oConv As Outlook.Conversation 
 Dim oStore As Outlook.Store 
 
 ' Get the item displayed in the Reading Pane. 
 Set oMail = ActiveExplorer.Selection(1) 
 Set oStore = oMail.Parent.Store 
 If oStore.IsConversationEnabled Then 
 Set oConv = oMail.GetConversation 
 If Not (oConv Is Nothing) Then 
 oConv.StopAlwaysDelete oStore 
 End If 
 End If 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Conversation Object](2705d38a-ebc0-e5a7-208b-ffe1f5446b1b.md)
#### Other resources


 [Conversation Object Members](09ff1e8e-7c5a-0b1e-e8e2-e259f66f71c8.md)
