
# Folder.GetStorage Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Gets a  ** [StorageItem](41776bc3-b838-2755-fd6b-3b5012fb9ae5.md)** object on the parent ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** to store data for an Outlook solution.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **GetStorage**( **_StorageIdentifier_**,  **_StorageIdentifierType_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Folder** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|StorageIdentifier|Required| **String**|An identifier for the  **StorageItem** object; depending on the identifier type, the value can represent an Entry ID, a message class, or a subject.|
|StorageIdentifierType|Required| ** [OlStorageIdentifierType](14283b38-6a0d-2954-bffe-87c36af27b2c.md)**|Specifies the type of identifier for the  **StorageItem** object.|

### Return Value

A  **StorageItem** object that is used to store data for a solution.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **GetStorage** method obtains a **StorageItem** on a **Folder** object using the identifier specified by _StorageIdentifier_ and has the identifier type specified by _StorageIdentifierType_. The  **StorageItem** is a hidden item in the **Folder**, which roams with the account and is available online and offline.

If you specify the  ** [EntryID](5489c6df-8bd5-db6a-9d06-abe224813feb.md)** for the **StorageItem** by using the **olIdentifyByEntryID** value for _StorageIdentifierType_, then the  **GetStorage** method will return the **StorageItem** with the specified **EntryID**. If no  **StorageItem** can be found using that **EntryID** or if the **StorageItem** does not exist, then the **GetStorage** method will raise an error.

If you specify the message class for the  **StorageItem** by using the **olIdentifyByMessageClass** value for _StorageIdentifierType_, then the  **GetStorage** method will return the **StorageItem** with the specified message class. If there are multiple items with the same message class, then the **GetStorage** method returns the item with the most recent **PR_LAST_MODIFICATION_TIME**. If no  **StorageItem** exists with the specified message class, then the **GetStorage** method creates a new **StorageItem** with the message class specified by _StorageIdentifier_.

If you specify the  ** [Subject](50533838-ad7a-ce4a-4b9e-7923d2868c41.md)** of the **StorageItem**, then the  **GetStorage** method will return the **StorageItem** with the **Subject** specified in the **GetStorage** call. If there are multiple items with the same **Subject**, then the  **GetStorage** method will return the item with the most recent **PR_LAST_MODIFICATION_TIME**. If no  **StorageItem** exists with the specified **Subject**, then the  **GetStorage** method will create a new **StorageItem** with the **Subject** specified by _StorageIdentifier_.

 **GetStorage** returns an error if the store type of the folder is not supported. The following stores return an error when **GetStorage** is called:


- Hotmail store
    
- Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) stores
    
- Delegate stores
    
- Public folder stores
    


The  ** [Size](7bf2fd39-8705-aa1b-af76-a3a21073d152.md)** of a **StorageItem** that is newly created is zero (0) until you make an explicit call on the ** [Save](9462a342-294a-175e-7e8f-d416f0959f69.md)** method of the item.

For more information on storing data for a solution, see  [Storing Data for Solutions](58e69983-5718-4dde-64fc-858abd80c9e5.md).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following code sample in Visual Basic for Applications shows how to use the  **StorageItem** object to store private solution data. It saves the data in a custom property of a **StorageItem** object in the Inbox folder. The following describes the steps:


1. The code sample calls  **GetStorage** to obtain an existing **StorageItem** object that has the subject "My Private Storage" in the Inbox. If no **StorageItem** with that subject already exists, **GetStorage** creates a **StorageItem** object with that subject.
    
2. If the  **StorageItem** is newly created, the code sample creates a custom property "Order Number" for the object. Note that "Order Number" is a property of a hidden item in the Inbox.
    
3. The code sample then assigns a value to "Order Number" and saves the  **StorageItem** object.
    





```
Sub AssignStorageData() 
 Dim oInbox As Outlook.Folder 
 Dim myStorage As Outlook.StorageItem 
 
 Set oInbox = Application.Session.GetDefaultFolder(olFolderInbox) 
 ' Get an existing instance of StorageItem, or create new if it doesn't exist 
 Set myStorage = oInbox.GetStorage("My Private Storage", olIdentifyBySubject) 
 ' If StorageItem is new, add a custom property for Order Number 
 If myStorage.Size = 0 Then 
 myStorage.UserProperties.Add "Order Number", olNumber 
 End If 
 ' Assign a value to the custom property 
 myStorage.UserProperties("Order Number").Value = 100 
 myStorage.Save 
End Sub 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Folder Object](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)
#### Other resources


 [Folder Object Members](788acd42-377a-1803-7713-50e45086e2d1.md)
