
# CardView Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a view that displays Outlook items as a series of index cards.

## Remarks

The  **CardView** object, derived from the ** [View](41c8d149-9912-1685-4c8b-3c849cc6f1ed.md)** object, allows you to create customizable views that allow you to display Outlook items as index cards.

Outlook provides several built-in  **CardView** objects, and you can also create custom **CardView** objects. Use the ** [Add](8005ca2e-8b28-1286-74d1-448f2a168c65.md)** method of the ** [Views](5dd7edc2-12a2-f4c2-d158-8053d80e8dc9.md)** collection to add a new **CardView** to a ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object. Use the ** [Standard](64a70f7f-e5c1-83b7-2750-787cbd18ea89.md)** property to determine if an existing **CardView** object is built-in or custom.

You can configure how Outlook items appear within the  **CardView** object. Use the ** [MultiLineFieldHeight](71b87b15-ef48-9214-295c-731bb9fbc808.md)** property to specify the number of lines used to display multi-line text in each card, the ** [HeadingsFont](3287437e-4ac5-35f5-818a-caea608f8095.md)** property to specify the font used to display heading text on each card, and the ** [BodyFont](8ac8c38b-999b-439e-266c-249770d946c7.md)** property to specify the font used to display body text on each card. Use the ** [AllowInCellEditing](e33da36e-d56e-6001-41e1-d923c0d3e450.md)** property to allow editing of Outlook item property values in the view, and the ** [ShowEmptyFields](d2f4f4dd-3002-ab60-9aa5-c1cc70431523.md)** property to display empty Outlook item properties in the view. Use the ** [Filter](2ac2ed8b-9ce9-60a1-7b6a-b136c0d0ffff.md)** property to determine which Outlook items to display in the view, the ** [ViewFields](6e223f9f-b603-2a29-5cf8-5ae3cd891a39.md)** collection to specify the Outlook item properties to display in each card, and the ** [SortFields](619938a1-25aa-ffdf-01e1-9a12801245bd.md)** collection to specify the Outlook item properties by which Outlook items are sorted in the view.

The definition for each  **CardView** object is stored in Extensible Markup Language (XML) format. Use the ** [XML](a2be1e50-ae77-785c-0dc3-2b56c3a47cc7.md)** property to work with the XML definition for the **CardView** object.

Use the  ** [Apply](2fa94420-2780-0e48-3a8c-69ad220bb596.md)** method to apply any changes made to the **CardView** object to the current view. Use the ** [Save](78d967c3-c685-89c3-0569-52af744b10fb.md)** method to persist any changes made to the **CardView** object. Use the ** [LockUserChanges](a9fea66c-36b3-6c72-8aee-dc77ca8ae215.md)** property to allow or prevent changes to the user interface for the view.

You can change built-in  **CardView** objects, but you cannot delete them. Use the ** [Delete](909c418b-7af7-ecee-f414-6bd38de15419.md)** method to delete a custom **CardView** object. Use the ** [Reset](47d6e16a-e789-2224-ec11-0569f199f787.md)** method to reset the properties of a built-in **CardView** object to their default values.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [CardView Object Members](8b9eda10-1ece-c961-e432-3fca6dfb4f07.md)
