
# NavigationFolder.Position Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets an  **Long** value that represents the ordinal position of the ** [NavigationFolder](c8d7aabb-58ba-df5e-ccdc-06f73db7726c.md)** object when displayed in the Navigation Pane. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Position**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **NavigationFolder** object.


## Remarks

This property can only be set to a value between 1 and the value of the  ** [Count](f6e71753-00cd-293c-93fd-f62d5822d9b1.md)** property for the parent ** [NavigationFolders](ecff93b8-0c3f-5f31-5b61-c46d2622d2af.md)** object. An error occurs if you attempt to set this property to a value outside that range.

Changing the value of this property for a  **NavigationFolder** object changes the **Position** values of other navigation folders contained by a **NavigationFolders** collection, depending on the relative change between the new value and the original value of the **Position** property for that **NavigationFolder** object:


- If the new value is less than the original value, then the specified  **NavigationFolder** object moves up to the new position and pushes the other navigation folders already at or below that new position down.
    
- If the new value is greater than the original value, then the specified  **NavigationFolder** object moves down to the new position and pushes the other navigation folders between the old position and the new position up, filling the old position.
    
If the navigation folder has been removed from the Navigation Pane, then this property returns -1 to indicate that the navigation folder is no longer part of the navigation group.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [NavigationFolder Object](c8d7aabb-58ba-df5e-ccdc-06f73db7726c.md)
#### Other resources


 [NavigationFolder Object Members](1ec2e16d-c7ca-86b1-9283-839a2b9aca05.md)
