
# NameSpace.CreateContactCard Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Creates an instance of a  ** [ContactCard](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/148c7268-e12c-d9ae-d31f-b625067eb352%28Office.15%29.aspx)** object for the contact that is specified by the _AddressEntry_ parameter.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **CreateContactCard**( **_Address_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [NameSpace](f0dcaa19-07f5-5d42-a3bf-2e42b7885644.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|AddressEntry|Required| **AddressEntry**|The  ** [AddressEntry](d4a0a85e-8bab-bc56-57bc-d70c3c570c8e.md)** object that represents the user for whom the contact card is to be created.|

### Return Value

The  **Office.ContactCard** object that is created for the specified user.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 The **ContactCard** object is available in the type library of Microsoft Office. Before calling **CreateContactCard** to create a contact card in Microsoft Outlook, Outlook must be logged into an Outlook session.

The  _AddressEntry_ parameter is an **AddressEntry** object that represents one of the following **AddressEntry** types defined in the ** [OlAddressEntryUserType](9f128fe4-9981-e06a-d69c-ca7cf9107fe9.md)** enumeration:


- olExchangeDistributionListAddressEntry
    
- olExchangeRemoteUserAddressEntry
    
- olExchangeUserAddressEntry
    
- olOutlookContactAddressEntry
    
- olSmtpAddressEntry
    


Outlook raises the E_INVALIDARG error when you pass any of the following  **OlAddressEntryUserType** values as an argument to the **CreateContactCard** method:


- olExchangeAgentAddressEntry
    
- olExchangeOrganizationAddressEntry
    
- olExchangePublicFolderAddressEntry
    
- olLdapAddressEntry
    
- olOtherAddressEntry
    
- olOutlookDistributionListAddressEntry
    



## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

 The following code sample in Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) displays a Contact Card for the current user defined by the ** [CurrentUser](d6884fcf-c1de-23f4-8d91-02c8f9fd5253.md)** property of the ** [NameSpace](f0dcaa19-07f5-5d42-a3bf-2e42b7885644.md)** object.

You cannot run this code directly from the VBA window. To run the code, click the  **Developer** tab, click the **Macros** menu, and then select **Project1.DisplayContactCardForCurrentUser**. For more information about the  **Developer** tab, see [Run in Developer Mode in Outlook](8f81b1ce-333d-d9be-2af7-cfc65bf15e22.md).




```
Sub DisplayContactCardForCurrentUser() 
 
 Dim oCC As Office.ContactCard 
 
 Dim oAddrEntry As Outlook.AddressEntry 
 
 Set oAddrEntry = Application.session.CurrentUser.AddressEntry 
 
 Set oCC = Application.session.CreateContactCard(oAddrEntry) 
 
 oCC.Show msoContactCardFull, 100, 100, 100, 100, 100, True 
 
 End Sub 
 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [NameSpace Object](f0dcaa19-07f5-5d42-a3bf-2e42b7885644.md)
#### Other resources


 [NameSpace Object Members](d7a978a3-a2c8-6195-c5f8-af8773500456.md)
