
# Filtering Items Using Query Keywords

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

You can use the following query keywords only in DAV Searching and Locating (DASL) queries. Keywords are case-insensitive. Microsoft Jet does not support any query keywords.

-  **ci_startwith** and **ci_phrasematch**
    
    These content indexer keywords provide prefix and phrase matching respectively for items in an indexed store. For example, the following DASL query creates a filter for last name starting with "Smith" and uses a content indexer keyword to return the results:
    


  ```
  criteria = "@SQL=" &amp; Chr(34) _ 
&amp; "urn:schemas:contacts:sn" &amp; Chr(34) _ 
&amp; " ci_startswith 'Smith'"
  ```


    The following DASL query creates a filter for last name being exactly "Smith" and uses a content indexer keyword to return the results: 
    


  ```
  criteria = "@SQL=" &amp; Chr(34) _ 
&amp; "urn:schemas:contacts:sn" &amp; Chr(34) _ 
&amp; " ci_phrasematch 'Smith'"
  ```

-  **Is Null**
    
    Evaluates if a property is null. Returns True if the property is null and False if the property is not null.
    
     **Is Null** operations are useful to determine if a date property has been set or if a string property is empty. If the date is null, the local time value of the date will be equal to 1/1/4501.
    
    The syntax of  **Is Null** is as follows:
    


  ```
  [PropertyName] IS NULL
  ```


    where  _PropertyName_ is the name of a property referenced by namespace.
    
    You can combine the  **Is Null** keywords with the **Not** operator to evaluate if a property is not null.
    
    The following DASL query retrieves all contacts where the custom property  **Order Date** is not null and the ** [CompanyName](076cd6f7-7faa-ab1c-254c-3307c40520ee.md)** property is exactly Microsoft:
    


  ```
  criteria = "@SQL=" &amp; "(NOT(" _ 
&amp; Chr(34) &amp; "http://schemas.microsoft.com/mapi/string/" _ 
&amp; "{00020329-0000-0000-C000-000000000046}/Order%20Date" &amp; Chr(34) _ 
&amp; " IS NULL) AND " _ &amp; Chr(34) &amp; "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office#Company" 
&amp; Chr(34) _ &amp; " = 'Microsoft')"
  ```


