
# MeetingItem.BeforeRead Event (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Occurs before Microsoft Outlook begins to read the properties for the item.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **BeforeRead**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **MeetingItem** object.


## Remarks

The  **BeforeRead** event occurs before the ** [Read](8a83b213-1afb-7ded-eb67-3e5d21502c5b.md)** event. Unlike other events with the Before prefix, this event is not cancelable. To determine when the item is unloaded from memory, use the ** [Unload](87053a2f-11cc-6a76-a4fd-7c752efb00bd.md)** event.

The  **BeforeRead** event corresponds to the Exchange Client Extensions (ECE) event **IExchExtMessageEvents::OnRead**.

Only the following members of the item object can be accessed in the  **BeforeRead** event:


-  ** [Class](92750064-bb55-ba4b-83c3-b3d74da5ea50.md)**
    
-  ** [MessageClass](0e7f893f-4de3-06c6-32e0-c815f9af35d5.md)**
    
-  **MAPIOBJECT**
    
The  **MAPIOBJECT** property is a hidden property in the Outlook object model. This property provides access to the underlying MAPI ** [IMessage](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc842097%28office.14%29.aspx)** object, and can be invoked only via the ** [IUnknown](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms680509%28VS.85%29.aspx)** interface. The property is accessible to programs written in languages such as C or C++ that support **IUnknown**.  **MAPIOBJECT** is not available through the ** [IDispatch](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms221608.aspx)** interface. Development languages such as Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), Visual C#, and Visual Basic support the **IDispatch** interface and not **IUnknown**, and therefore, they cannot access  **MAPIOBJECT**. If other properties or methods of the parent item are accessed in this event, Outlook raises an error.

If the implementer accesses the underlying  **IMessage** object and changes properties on that object, Outlook will render that item reflecting the changes to the **IMessage** object. The implementer does not have to call ** [SaveChanges](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc842181%28office.14%29.aspx)** on the **IMessage** object to cause the changes to be reflected in Outlook.

Implementers must release the object obtained from the  **MAPIOBJECT** property in the event before the event completes. Attempting to use that object outside the context of the event is unsupported and will lead to unpredictable behavior.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [MeetingItem Object](b75730f5-b395-3d66-5acd-b64fd8fcd78f.md)
#### Other resources


 [MeetingItem Object Members](9ae6a19d-d326-4c37-90d8-5ed9933672a0.md)
