
# IconView Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a view that displays Outlook items as a series of labeled icons.

## Remarks

The  **IconView** object, derived from the ** [View](41c8d149-9912-1685-4c8b-3c849cc6f1ed.md)** object, allows you to create customizable views that allow you to display Outlook items as large or small icons, with labels.

Outlook provides several built-in views, and you can also create custom  **IconView** objects. Use the ** [Add](8005ca2e-8b28-1286-74d1-448f2a168c65.md)** method of the ** [Views](5dd7edc2-12a2-f4c2-d158-8053d80e8dc9.md)** collection to add a new **IconView** to a ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object. Use the ** [Standard](13816c3b-a35f-30cf-c63e-fb7d52a0a942.md)** property to determine if an existing **IconView** object is built-in or custom.

The  **IconView** object supports several different view types, depending on the desired layout in which to display Outlook items. Use the ** [IconViewType](8255256d-eb71-6d3c-66bf-27aa5a103297.md)** property to set the view type.

You can also configure how Outlook items appear within the  **IconView** object. Use the ** [IconPlacement](8b6f403e-1eeb-6f23-b780-808d5f5b5bc6.md)** property to determine how the icons for Outlook items are arranged within the view. Use the ** [Filter](121b375b-40f0-ef8c-108a-ac57d6e693e7.md)** property to determine which Outlook items to display in the view and the ** [SortFields](1fcc81e9-e224-3795-f534-b9df4633aaec.md)** collection to specify the Outlook item properties by which Outlook items are sorted in the view.

The definition for each  **IconView** object is stored in Extensible Markup Language (XML) format. Use the ** [XML](d6876759-9266-77ab-c61e-e7d2eb240a96.md)** property to work with the XML definition for the **IconView** object.

Use the  ** [Apply](ddf036e9-ca69-9ade-05bd-c58d52f5c610.md)** method to apply any changes made to the **IconView** object to the current view. Use the ** [Save](a3fbd05c-c6f8-b387-d0fd-436c4c1ecc1e.md)** method to persist any changes made to the **IconView** object. Use the ** [LockUserChanges](53d42f7f-3fb0-2a3f-7431-f21fb43820d1.md)** property to allow or prevent changes to the user interface for the view.

You can change built-in  **IconView** objects, but you cannot delete them. Use the ** [Delete](fa5ea9eb-3eb9-6617-d4e4-76b06e6dfa96.md)** method to delete a custom **IconView** object. Use the ** [Reset](0cb48612-db32-19e4-1478-694898775752.md)** method to reset the properties of a built-in **IconView** object to their default values.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [IconView Object Members](f29e5d94-b231-bd9a-d993-1884a3e2b97b.md)
