
# Save a Form in a Forms Library

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Outlook 2013_

 **Note**  This Help topic describes how to save a form that you customized with form pages; it does not apply to forms that you customized with form regions. With form regions, you save the layout of the form region by clicking  **Form Region**, and then  **Save Form Region** to save the form region layout file with an .ofs extension. After that, you must create a form region manifest XML file and register the form region in the Windows registry. For more information, see [How to: Create a Form Region](695b95a5-c795-cb4a-8d35-ba12b0007b1f.md).


## Forms customized with form pages


1. In an open form, on the  **Developer** tab, in the **Form** group, click **Publish**, and then click  **Publish Form As**. 
    
     **Note**  If you do not see the  **Developer** tab in the open form, see the topic [Run in Developer Mode in Outlook](8f81b1ce-333d-d9be-2af7-cfc65bf15e22.md).
2. In the  **Display Name** box, type the display name for the form.
    
3. In the  **Form** box, type the name for the form.
    
4. To change the location (library) where the form is stored, select a folder in the  **Look In** box, or click the browse button and select a folder.
    
5.  **(Exchange only)** To save the form in the Organizational Forms Library, click **Organizational Forms Library** in the **Forms Library** box. To save the form in the Outlook Folders Library, click **Outlook Folders**, and then click the folder where you want to save the form. To save the form in the Personal Forms Library, click  **Personal Forms Library**. 
    
6. After you select the folder where you want to publish your form, click  **Publish**.
    
