
# ListBox.Enabled Property (Outlook Forms Script)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Boolean** that specifies whether a control can receive the focus and respond to user-generated events. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Enabled**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ListBox** object.


## Remarks

 **True** is the control can receive the focus and respond to user-generated events, and is accessible through code (default). **False** if the user cannot interact with the control by using the mouse, keystrokes, accelerators, or hotkeys. The control is generally still accessible through code.

Use the  **Enabled** property to enable and disable controls. A disabled control appears dimmed, while an enabled control does not. Also, if a control displays a bitmap, the bitmap is dimmed whenever the control is dimmed.

The  **Enabled** and ** [Locked](46e88f84-b57a-d454-3e0a-6ee8c5dacc73.md)** properties work together to achieve the following effects:


- If  **Enabled** and **Locked** are both **True**, the control can receive focus and appears normally (not dimmed) in the form. The user can copy, but not edit, data in the control.
    
- If  **Enabled** is **True** and **Locked** is **False**, the control can receive focus and appears normally in the form. The user can copy and edit data in the control.
    
- If  **Enabled** is **False** and **Locked** is **True**, the control cannot receive focus and is dimmed in the form. The user can neither copy nor edit data in the control.
    
- If  **Enabled** and **Locked** are both **False**, the control cannot receive focus and is dimmed in the form. The user can neither copy nor edit data in the control.
    


Clicking a disabled  ** [ListBox](f56ba480-f8fe-6d12-265e-3b0a9838af97.md)** does not initiate the ** [Click](a3b32670-d20c-a5cc-d236-041cbe155779.md)** event.

