
# SolutionsModule.Position Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns or sets a  **Long** value that represents the ordinal position of the ** [SolutionsModule](4597765e-a95d-bf07-2ac4-103218ebc696.md)** object when it is displayed in the **Navigation Pane**. Read/write.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **Position**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **SolutionsModule** object.


## Remarks

This property can only be set to a value between 1 and 9. An error occurs if you attempt to set this property to a value outside that range. If no solutions exist in the  **Solutions** module, setting or getting the **Position** property also raises an error.

Changing the value of this property for a given  **SolutionsModule** object changes the **Position** values of other navigation modules in a ** [NavigationModules](4b0743d3-0a21-488c-27b2-31ae07129a61.md)** collection, depending on the relative change between the new value and the original value.


- If the new value is less than the original value, the specified  **SolutionsModule** object moves up to the new position and the other navigation modules that are already at or below that new position move down.
    
- If the new value is greater than the original value, the specified  **SolutionsModule** object moves down to the new position and the other navigation modules that are between the old position and the new position move up, filling the old position.
    



## See also


#### Concepts


 [SolutionsModule Object](4597765e-a95d-bf07-2ac4-103218ebc696.md)
#### Other resources


 [SolutionsModule Object Members](8537b2d4-07cb-9e40-a87b-ff12d304f809.md)
