
# Sharing Online Calendars, RSS Feeds, Microsoft SharePoint Foundation Folders, and Exchange Folders

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Outlook 2013_

 In Microsoft Outlook, you can share and subscribe to a variety of online resources, including:


- Webcal calendars (webcal:// _mysite_/ _mycalendar_)
    
- RSS feeds (feed:// _mysite_/ _myfeed_)
    
- SharePoint Foundation folders (stssync:// _mysite_/ _myfolder_)
    
- Exchange folders
    
Calendar information can also be shared either by providing direct access to a calendar folder or by exporting calendar information to an iCalendar calendar (.ics) file. For more information about sharing calendars, see  [Sharing Calendars](03e0b693-5446-ca62-f868-69a583087966.md).

## Sharing Online Resources

For publically available online resources, such as Webcal calendars, RSS feeds, and SharePoint Foundation folders, a sharing message is not required. You can use the  ** [OpenSharedFolder](907efeab-8a37-98a6-f241-0a051f03f472.md)** method of the **NameSpace** object to open the online resource. For online resources to which access is required, such as Exchange folders, a sharing request can be created to request access. You can create a sharing request by using the ** [CreateSharingItem](4c93d347-cc39-eb5d-bf08-125b69f91eb6.md)** method of the ** [NameSpace](f0dcaa19-07f5-5d42-a3bf-2e42b7885644.md)** object to create a ** [SharingItem](63dd3451-44f3-7cc4-c6e2-7dad5835a7d2.md)** object. The shared resource (a ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object reference to the desired Exchange default folder) is used to establish the sharing context for the sharing request.

You can also use a sharing invitation to direct another user to an online resource. To construct a sharing invitation, the  **CreateSharingItem** method of the ** [NameSpace](f0dcaa19-07f5-5d42-a3bf-2e42b7885644.md)** object is used to create a **SharingItem** object. The shared resource (either a ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object reference to the desired folder or a string containing the appropriate URI for the online resource) is used to establish the sharing context for the sharing invitation.


 **Note**  Sharing requests can be created only for Exchange default folders. To access other Exchange folders, a sharing invitation from the owner of the folder is required.


## Sharing Providers

Each type of online resource, such as Webcal calendars, is supported by a corresponding sharing provider. A sharing provider encapsulates the access and interpretation tools for a given online resource type. You can use the  ** [SharingProvider](ce903565-3e07-677a-5e69-d77fc742a7fa.md)** and ** [SharingProviderGuid ](178a8743-1cb6-df30-2f00-6d8e7c332bbe.md)** properties of a **SharingItem** to determine the sharing provider used by a given sharing message.

