
# AddressList.ResolutionOrder Property (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Returns an  **Integer** that represents the order of this ** [AddressList](84611afe-48b1-185b-df4b-0f004e7436ff.md)** in the custom scroll list in the **Addressing** dialog box. Read-only.

## Syntax

 _expression_. **ResolutionOrder**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **AddressList** object.


## Remarks

The  **ResolutionOrder** property corresponds to the position of the **AddressList** in the list box which is labeled **When sending mail, check address lists in this order** in the **Addressing** dialog box and is available by clicking **Tools**, and then  **Options** in the **Address Book** dialog box. Note that this behavior is independent of whether **Custom** is selected in the **Addressing** dialog box. For example, if **Start with Global Address List** is selected and the scroll list displays **Contacts** as the first item, the **ResolutionOrder** property of the **Contacts** address list is still 1, even though when resolving recipients, Outlook uses the Global Address List first.

When  **Custom** is selected in the **Addressing** dialog box, the **ResolutionOrder** property reflects the order that Outlook uses when resolving recipient names. The value of **ResolutionOrder** is one-based. In this case, the first address list to be used for resolving recipient names has a **ResolutionOrder** equal to 1, the second address list 2, and so forth. If an address list is not used to resolve addresses, then its **ResolutionOrder** has a value of -1. Programmatically, when **Custom** is selected in the **Addressing** dialog box, the **ResolutionOrder** property reflects the actual resolution order that ** [Recipients.ResolveAll](82404dc6-af4e-f32d-68b2-9451328b5ca6.md)** or ** [Recipient.Resolve](2c4f9243-2e31-642e-78a7-fe74cd73b385.md)** uses.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [AddressList Object](84611afe-48b1-185b-df4b-0f004e7436ff.md)
#### Other resources


 [AddressList Object Members](49ce35c2-400b-16b0-5f74-7f7d6260e45b.md)
