
# AddressEntry.GetExchangeUser Method (Outlook)

Returns an  ** [ExchangeUser](6ec117d1-7fdb-aa36-b567-1242f8238df0.md)** object that represents the ** [AddressEntry](d4a0a85e-8bab-bc56-57bc-d70c3c570c8e.md)** if the **AddressEntry** belongs to an Exchange ** [AddressList](84611afe-48b1-185b-df4b-0f004e7436ff.md)** object such as the Global Address List (GAL) and corresponds to an Exchange user.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **GetExchangeUser**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **AddressEntry** object.


### Return Value

An  **ExchangeUser** object that represents the **AddressEntry**. Returns  **Null** ( **Nothing** in Visual Basic) if the **AddressEntry** object does not correspond to an Exchange user.


## Remarks

You have to be connected to the Exchange server to use this method.
 
The returned value is based on a character set, and if a string is passed that is based on a similar character set, the returned entry is based on the first letter of the string that is passed.

For example, in the case of an Exchange user who also has an address entry "Jai" in his Outlook address book, the developer passes the Exchange user string representing a different user, such as Jack. Although a "Jack" entry is not available in the Outlook address book, the return value is the email address for "Jai" rather than "Null".



## Example

The following code sample shows how to obtain the business phone number, office location, and job title for all Exchange user entries in the Exchange Global Address List. It first uses  ** [AddressList.AddressListType](3a62cdec-3d8d-3bcf-b2c3-f9dd496fd6e0.md)** to find the Global Address List. For each **AddressEntry** on that ** [AddressList](84611afe-48b1-185b-df4b-0f004e7436ff.md)**, it uses  **AddressEntryUserType** to verify if the **AddressEntry** represents an Exchange user. After it finds an Exchange user, it uses **GetExchangeUser** to obtain and print the various pieces of data for the user.


```
Sub DemoAE() 
 
 Dim colAL As Outlook.AddressLists 
 
 Dim oAL As Outlook.AddressList 
 
 Dim colAE As Outlook.AddressEntries 
 
 Dim oAE As Outlook.AddressEntry 
 
 Dim oExUser As Outlook.ExchangeUser 
 
 Set colAL = Application.Session.AddressLists 
 
 For Each oAL In colAL 
 
 'Address list is an Exchange Global Address List 
 
 If oAL.AddressListType = olExchangeGlobalAddressList Then 
 
 Set colAE = oAL.AddressEntries 
 
 For Each oAE In colAE 
 
 If oAE.AddressEntryUserType = _ 
 
 olExchangeUserAddressEntry _ 
 
 Or oAE.AddressEntryUserType = _ 
 
 olExchangeRemoteUserAddressEntry Then 
 
 Set oExUser = oAE.GetExchangeUser 
 
 Debug.Print (oExUser.JobTitle) 
 
 Debug.Print (oExUser.OfficeLocation) 
 
 Debug.Print (oExUser.BusinessTelephoneNumber) 
 
 End If 
 
 Next 
 
 End If 
 
 Next 
 
End Sub 
 

```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [AddressEntry Object](d4a0a85e-8bab-bc56-57bc-d70c3c570c8e.md)
#### Other resources


 [AddressEntry Object Members](74c88069-aec4-952b-556f-03873fbb488b.md)
