
# NavigationFolders Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Contains a set of  ** [NavigationFolder](c8d7aabb-58ba-df5e-ccdc-06f73db7726c.md)** objects that represent the navigation folders associated with a navigation group.

## Remarks

Use the  ** [NavigationFolders](06e58adc-99d7-dd84-4d23-7f845850ff98.md)** property of the ** [NavigationGroup](a96eb2b1-af1f-71b2-6a0b-dcb5078beb1f.md)** object to return a **NavigationFolders** object.

Use the  ** [Add](f88fd69a-8684-bfc4-bc20-1cff5c44974e.md)** method to create a new **NavigationFolder** object based on an existing ** [Folder](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)** object and add it to the collection. Use the ** [Item](1688b2ef-a4a1-fc8a-513e-0d5e234f10dd.md)** method to return an existing **NavigationFolder** object contained by the **NavigationFolders** collection. Use the ** [Remove](ddaa3dd8-7539-ea5b-78a8-daa48ea63771.md)** method from the ** [NavigationFolders](ecff93b8-0c3f-5f31-5b61-c46d2622d2af.md)** collection of the parent ** [NavigationGroup](a96eb2b1-af1f-71b2-6a0b-dcb5078beb1f.md)** object.

Use the  ** [NavigationFolderAdd](b290941c-794d-0c95-ed63-ea8db3be553e.md)** and ** [NavigationFolderRemove](1ea9f463-2ddd-32ef-31d6-e6257b9b34cf.md)** events to detect when a navigation folder is added or removed, respectively, from the **NavigationFolders** object. Use the ** [SelectedChange](eb55ed92-1925-9aaa-8fd6-9280cfc8aa47.md)** event to detect changes in selection state for navigation folders contained in the **NavigationFolders** object that are based on calendar folders.

Note that if you delete a  **Folder** using ** [Folder.Delete](3df0f063-3f41-e3b7-d1e3-7ea08970c56d.md)**, the deletion will be reflected automatically in the Navigation Pane and in the  **NavigationFolders** collection, but because the synchronization between the actual folders and the Navigation Pane happens asynchronously, this will take a few milliseconds to complete.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Outlook Object Model Reference](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [NavigationFolders Object Members](b2db3d9f-86bb-41d7-6be2-facd16bf8b60.md)
