
# Pages Object (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Contains pages that represent the pages of an Inspector window.

## Remarks

Every  ** [Inspector](d7384756-669c-0549-1032-c3b864187994.md)** object has a **Pages** object defined, which is empty (count 0) if the Outlook item has never been customized before.

Use the  ** [ModifiedFormPages](ac377d47-846a-1217-592f-7ed190b824ca.md)** property to return the **Pages** object from an **Inspector** object.

Use the  ** [Add](4a28aac5-be6f-0892-0fc1-17ded4dff783.md)** method to create a custom page (you can add as many as 5 customizable pages). Use the **_Name_** argument of the **Add** method to set the display name of the returned page. In addition to adding custom pages, you can use the _Name_ argument to return the main page of an **Inspector** object for modification.

Use  **ModifiedFormPages**( _index_), where  _index_ is the name or index number, to return a single page from a **Pages** object.


## Example



The following example returns the  **Pages** object for the active **Inspector**.




```
Set myPages = myItem.GetInspector.ModifiedFormPages
```

The following example returns a custom page with a default name (such as "Custom1").




```
Set myPage = myPages.Add
```

The following example returns a custom page named "My Page."






```
Set myPage = myPages.Add("My Page")
```

The following example returns the Message page if the Inspector contains a mail message.




```
Set myPage = myPages.Add("Message")
```

The following example returns the General (main) page if the inspector contains a contact.




```
Set myPage = myPages.Add("General")
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Object model (Outlook VBA reference)](73221b13-d8d8-99b8-3394-b95dbbfd5ddc.md)
#### Other resources


 [Pages Members (Outlook)](8cbf9b2a-f53b-087c-0b8e-f824e967b5a6.md)
