
# Folder.GetExplorer Method (Outlook)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns an  ** [Explorer](026591e5-049f-503a-4166-34e6dbc225fb.md)**object that represents a new, inactive  **Explorer** object initialized with the specified folder as the current folder.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **GetExplorer**( **_DisplayMode_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Folder** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|DisplayMode|Optional| **Variant**|The display mode of the folder. Can be one of the constants in the  ** [OlFolderDisplayMode](90ab0507-7096-4075-72c1-bc56de25bbf2.md)** enumeration.|

### Return Value

An  **Explorer** object that represents a new, inactive Explorer initialized with the specified folder as the current folder.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This method is useful for returning a new  **Explorer** object in which to display the folder, as opposed to using the ** [ActiveExplorer](f6dd27c0-4319-c7fc-191f-8b3b2ea319d3.md)**method and setting the  ** [CurrentFolder](75e7f120-28df-0c3b-ec05-bd880621141b.md)**property.

The  ** [Explorer.Display](3d93be5a-90af-af60-c16a-ec15d87f4d97.md)**method can be used to activate or show the  **Explorer**.

The  **GetExplorer** method takes an optional argument of an **OlFolderDisplayMode** constant.

By default, the new  **Explorer** will be displayed in the Normal mode ( **olFolderDisplayNormal**) with all interface elements displayed: a message panel on the right and the Navigation Pane on the left. The exception to this rule is when you are calling  **GetExplorer** on delegated folders that are in No-Navigation mode ( **olFolderDisplayNoNavigation** ) by default. You can apply more restrictions to a default mode, but you cannot lessen the restrictions by changing the **OlFolderDisplayMode**.

The explorer can also be displayed in Folder-Only mode ( **olFolderDisplayFolderOnly**). This mode is essentially the same as the Normal mode ( **olFolderDisplayNormal** ) in that it too displays the Navigation Pane on the left.

 The most restrictive mode you can use is No-Navigation mode ( **olFolderDisplayNoNavigation**). In this mode, the  **Explorer** will display with no folder list, no drop-down folder list, and any "Go"-type menu/command bar options should be disabled. Basically, the user should not be able to navigate to any other folder within that **Explorer** window. By default, a delegated (shared) folder appears in No-Navigation mode.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example uses the  **GetExplorer**method to return a new, inactive explorer for the default Contacts folder and then displays the explorer in the default mode of  **olFolderDisplayNormal**.


```
Sub ActivateContactExplorer() 
 
 Dim nsp As Outlook.NameSpace 
 
 Dim mpfContacts As Outlook.Folder 
 
 Dim expContacts As Outlook.Explorer 
 
 
 
 Set nsp = Application.GetNamespace("MAPI") 
 
 Set mpfContacts = nsp.GetDefaultFolder(olFolderContacts) 
 
 Set expContacts = mpfContacts.GetExplorer 
 
 expContacts.Activate 
 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Folder Object](3cf6cda8-6d70-666e-2643-9d9c5b9cacfc.md)
#### Other resources


 [Folder Object Members](788acd42-377a-1803-7713-50e45086e2d1.md)
