
# Customize Pages on a Form

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Outlook 2013_

In general, you can customize up to five pages on a form. For e-mail messages and posts, you can customize a sixth page, the  **Message** page; for contacts, you can customize the **General** page. You can also customize forms by using form regions. For a side-by-side comparison of both options, see [Customizing Form Pages and Form Regions](c8c2d080-66a8-b761-bdc0-527b209e0bd1.md).


## Forms customized with form regions

When you customize a form by using form regions, you begin with a standard form as a template, just as you do when you customize a form page. Any type of form region opens as a separate blank page in the Forms Designer, and you design your layout from there. For more information, see  [How to: Create a Form Region](695b95a5-c795-cb4a-8d35-ba12b0007b1f.md) and [Walkthrough: Add a Form Region to an Existing Page on a Form](3c988dac-f171-966d-cf9a-17139353d604.md). 


## Forms customized with form pages

In the Forms Designer, do the following:


1. Click the page that you want to customize. 
    
2. From the  **Field Chooser**, drag a field to the page. Outlook automatically sizes the field for you. If you do not see the  **Field Chooser** box, on the **Developer** tab, in the **Tools** group, click **Field Chooser**.If the field that you want does not appear in the  **Field Chooser**, click a different field set from the list in the box at the top of the  **Field Chooser**. 
    
3. To align, size, or remove fields, right-click the field, and then select the options that you want from the shortcut menu. 
    
4.  [Add and remove controls](179357f3-3e98-ad24-e916-63cf757f8c5b.md).
    

 **Tip**  

