
# Presentations Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of all the  ** [Presentation](ec75cf52-69f8-d35b-0a26-4a8da8a9683f.md)** objects in Microsoft PowerPoint. Each **Presentation** object represents a presentation that's currently open in PowerPoint.

## Remarks

The  **Presentations** collection doesn't include open add-ins, which are a special kind of hidden presentation. You can, however, return a single open add-in if you know its file name. For example `Presentations("oscar.ppa")` will return the open add-in named "Oscar.ppa" as a **Presentation** object. However, it is recommended that the **AddIns** collection be used to return open add-ins.

If your Visual Studio solution includes the  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.PowerPoint** reference, this collection maps to the following types:


-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.PowerPoint.Presentations.GetEnumerator** (to enumerate the **Presentation** objects.)
    

## Example

Use the  [Presentations](d6f5f565-d593-e230-c3b9-2302bdd83644.md) property to return the **Presentations** collection. Use the [Add](9a09ad9b-c52d-9fd6-20ef-68b694596ed2.md) method to create a new presentation and add it to the collection. The following example creates a new presentation, adds a slide to the presentation, and then saves the presentation.


```
Set newPres = Presentations.Add(True) 
newPres.Slides.Add 1, 1 
newPres.SaveAs "Sample"
```

Use  **Presentations**(index), where index is the presentation's name or index number, to return a single  **Presentation** object. The following example prints presentation one.




```
Presentations(1).PrintOut
```

Use the  [Open](c19456ba-e5a8-83da-00ae-dd387e38febf.md) method to open a presentation and add it to the **Presentations** collection. The following example opens the file Sales.ppt as a read-only presentation.




```
Presentations.Open FileName:="sales.ppt", ReadOnly:=True
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [Presentations Object Members](b113aad2-7236-40a6-8c21-8217feff0d6b.md)
