
# EffectInformation.AnimateBackground Property (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns  **msoTrue** if the specified effect is a background animation. Read-only.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **AnimateBackground**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **EffectInformation** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use the  [TextLevelEffect](008e3db2-2d22-5218-c312-663f0106adc6.md)and  ** [TextUnitEffect](c86538af-7c76-f332-11f4-9e1a71453dab.md)**properties to control the animation of text attached to the specified shape.

If this property is set to  **msoTrue** and the **TextLevelEffect** property is set to **ppAnimateByAllLevels**, the shape and its text are animated simultaneously. If this property is set to  **msoTrue** and the **TextLevelEffect** property is set to anything other than **ppAnimateByAllLevels**, the shape is animated immediately before the text is animated.

You won't see effects of setting this property unless the specified shape is animated. For a shape to be animated, the  **TextLevelEffect** property for the shape must be set to something other than **ppAnimateLevelNone**, and either the  ** [Animate](7434630f-3c73-4261-36f7-a26d45e9df11.md)**property must be set to  **msoTrue**, or the  ** [EntryEffect](de803113-6f7f-b1a2-1d52-43eeacccf666.md)**property must be set to a constant other than  **ppEffectNone**.

The value returned by the  **AnimateBackground** property can be one of these **MsoTriState** constants.



|**Constant**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| **msoFalse**|The specified effect is not a background animation.|
| **msoTrue**| The specified effect is a background animation.|

## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example changes the direction of the animation if the background is currently animated.


```
Sub ChangeAnimationDirection()

    With ActivePresentation.Slides(1).TimeLine.MainSequence(1)

        If .EffectInformation.AnimateBackground = msoTrue Then

            .EffectParameters.Direction = msoAnimDirectionTopLeft

        End If

    End With

End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [EffectInformation Object](9b3d09f4-229b-8392-f9a4-777bf6557632.md)
 [EffectInformation Object Members](a4d1a670-2592-5b92-9506-2e576b3a4e88.md)
