
# Presentation.Permission Property (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)






## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Permission**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Presentation** object.


### Return Value

Permission


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use the  **Permission** object to restrict permissions to the active document and to return or set specific permissions settings.

Use the  **Enabled** property to determine whether permissions are restricted on the active document. Use the **Count** property to return the number of users with permissions, and the **RemoveAll** method to reset all existing permissions.

The  **DocumentAuthor**,  **EnableTrustedBrowser**,  **RequestPermissionURL**, and  **StoreLicenses** properties provide additional information about permission settings.

The  **Permission** object gives access to a collection of **UserPermission** objects. Use the **UserPermission** object to associate specific sets of rights with individual users. While some permissions granted in the user interface (such as **msoPermissionPrint**) apply to all users, you can use the  **UserPermission** object to assign them on a per-user basis with per-user expiration dates.

Information Rights Management supports the use of administrative permission policies, which list users and groups and their document permissions. Use the  **ApplyPolicy** method to apply a permission policy, and the **PermissionFromPolicy**,  **PolicyName**, and  **PolicyDescription** properties to return policy information.

The  **Permission** object model is available whether permissions are restricted on the active document or not. The **Permission** property of the **Presentation** object does not return **Nothing** when the active document does not have restricted permissions. Use the **Enabled** property to determine whether a document has restricted permissions.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example creates a new presentation and assigns the user with e-mail address "someone@example.com" read permission on the new presentation. The example will display the permissions of the owner and the new user.


```
Sub AddUserPermissions()

 Dim myPres As PowerPoint.Presentation

 Dim myPer As Office.Permission

 Dim NewOwnerPer As Office.UserPermission

 Set myPres = Application.Presentations.Add(msoTrue)

 Set myPer = myPres.Permission

 myPer.Enabled = True

 Set NewOwnerPer = myPer.Add("someone@example.com", msoPermissionRead )

 MsgBox myPer(1).UserId + " " + Str(myPer(1).Permission)

 MsgBox myPer(2).UserId + " " + Str(myPer(2).Permission)

End Sub


```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Presentation Object](ec75cf52-69f8-d35b-0a26-4a8da8a9683f.md)
#### Other resources


 [Presentation Object Members](b3538c7e-5fd9-d34d-ab5c-0105dbd516d0.md)
