
# Application.SlideShowOnPrevious Event (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Occurs when the user clicks  **Previous** to move within the current slide.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **SlideShowOnPrevious**( **_Wn_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Wn|Required| **SlideShowWindow**|The active slideshow window.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

To access  **Application** object events, declare a variable to represent the **Application** object in the **General Declarations** section of your code. Then set the variable equal to the **Application** object for which you want to access events. For more information about using events with the Microsoft PowerPoint **Application** object, see [How to: Use Events with the Application Object](b657ab62-67fa-4eeb-736c-86e31a026c73.md).

The  **SlideShowOnPrevious** event does not fire when users click **Previous** to move from one slide to the previous one, but rather only when they click **Previous** to move within a given slide, for example to rerun the previous animation on the slide.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example displays a message every time a user clicks  **Previous** to move with the current slide. The example assumes that you have already declared an **Application** object named _App_ in the **General Declarations** section of your code, using the **WithEvents** keyword.


```
Private Sub App_SlideShowOnPrevious(ByVal Wn As SlideShowWindow)



    Debug.Print "User clicked Previous to move within the current slide."

        

End Sub


```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](978c2b99-4271-b953-4283-73b5f3d96f41.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](7a9042da-ef77-ebba-c872-f736bf486674.md)
