
# TextRange.Paragraphs Method (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns a  **TextRange** object that represents the specified subset of text paragraphs.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Paragraphs**( **_Start_**,  **_Length_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **TextRange** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Start|Optional| **Long**|The first paragraph in the returned range.|
|Length|Optional| **Long**|The number of paragraphs to be returned.|

### Return Value

TextRange


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

For information about counting or looping through the paragraphs in a text range, see the  ** [TextRange](7c234107-c423-7ec9-e8bd-a82cc3b345de.md)** object.

If both Start and Length are omitted, the returned range starts with the first paragraph and ends with the last paragraph in the specified range.

If Start is specified but Length is omitted, the returned range contains one paragraph.

If Length is specified but Start is omitted, the returned range starts with the first paragraph in the specified range.

If Start is greater than the number of paragraphs in the specified text, the returned range starts with the last paragraph in the specified range.

If Length is greater than the number of paragraphs from the specified starting paragraph to the end of the text, the returned range contains all those paragraphs.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example formats as italic the first two lines of the second paragraph in shape two on slide one in the active presentation.


```
Application.ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes(2) _

    .TextFrame.TextRange.Paragraphs(2) _

    .Lines(1, 2).Font.Italic = True
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [TextRange Object](7c234107-c423-7ec9-e8bd-a82cc3b345de.md)
#### Other resources


 [TextRange Object Members](cb8dc5ff-34de-3d04-1d56-ed387daaf6b9.md)
