
# PrintOptions.RangeType Property (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets the type of print range for the presentation. Read/write.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **RangeType**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **PrintOptions** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The value of the  **RangeType** property can be one of these **PpSlideShowRangeType** constants.



| **ppShowAll**|
| **ppShowNamedSlideShow**|
| **ppShowSlideRange**|
To print the slides ranges you've defined in the  ** [PrintRanges](5c1e9dc1-e30c-bc65-5283-448b95795b11.md)**collection, you must first set the  **RangeType** property to **ppPrintSlideRange**. Setting  **RangeType** to anything other than **ppPrintSlideRange** means that the ranges you've defined in the **PrintRanges** collection won't be applied. However, this doesn't affect the contents of the **PrintRanges** collection in any way. That is, if you define some print ranges, set the **RangeType** property to a value other than **ppPrintSlideRange**, and then later set  **RangeType** back to **ppPrintSlideRange**, the print ranges you defined before will remain unchanged.

Specifying a value for the To and From arguments of the  ** [PrintOut](57685390-43c1-4bd4-d2ee-ba34641e34c5.md)**method sets the value of this property.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example prints the current slide the active presentation.


```
With ActivePresentation

    .PrintOptions.RangeType = ppPrintCurrent

    .PrintOut

End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [PrintOptions Object](19ce56ba-b0d0-4086-db86-e32feade70bd.md)
#### Other resources


 [PrintOptions Object Members](910ad0bd-7983-b94e-0055-c7f46442c097.md)
