
# ActionSetting.Run Property (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets the name of the presentation or macro to be run when the specified shape is clicked or the mouse pointer passes over the shape during a slide show. Read/write.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Run**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **ActionSetting** object.


### Return Value

String


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 For this property to affect the slide show action, you must set the ** [Action](32ed5574-5ac0-abb7-d300-6644fc894ec1.md)**property value to  **ppActionRunMacro** or **ppActionRunProgram** .

If the value of the  **Action** property is **ppActionRunMacro**, the specified string value should be the name of a global macro that's currently loaded. If the value of the  **Action** property is **ppActionRunProgram**, the specified string value should be the full path and file name of a program.

You can set the  **Run** property to a macro that takes no arguments or a macro that takes a single Shape or Object argument. The shape that was clicked during the slide show will be passed as this argument.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example specifies that the CalculateTotal macro be run whenever the mouse pointer passes over the shape during a slide show.


```
With ActivePresentation.Slides(1) _

    .Shapes(3).ActionSettings(ppMouseOver)

        .Action = ppActionRunMacro

        .Run = "CalculateTotal"

        .AnimateAction = True

End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ActionSetting Object](21381ff0-b9ff-59d8-77e9-345905fb8617.md)
#### Other resources


 [ActionSetting Object Members](0b86ea2f-f1c4-e7aa-7a32-ef30d3b93599.md)
