
# ShapeRange.RerouteConnections Method (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Reroutes connectors so that they take the shortest possible path between the shapes they connect. To do this, the  **RerouteConnections** method may detach the ends of a connector and reattach them to different connecting sites on the connected shapes.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **RerouteConnections**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ShapeRange** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This method reroutes all connectors attached to the specified shape; if the specified shape is a connector, it is rerouted.

If this method is applied to a connector, only that connector will be rerouted. If this method is applied to a connected shape, all connectors to that shape will be rerouted.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example adds two rectangles to  `myDocument`, connects them with a curved connector, and then reroutes the connector so that it takes the shortest possible path between the two rectangles. Note that the  **RerouteConnections** method adjusts the size and position of the connector and determines which connecting sites it attaches to, so the values you initially specify for the ConnectionSite arguments used with the **BeginConnect** and **EndConnect** methods are irrelevant.


```
Set myDocument = ActivePresentation.Slides(1)

Set s = myDocument.Shapes

Set firstRect = s.AddShape(msoShapeRectangle, 100, 50, 200, 100)

Set secondRect = s.AddShape(msoShapeRectangle, 300, 300, 200, 100)

Set newConnector = s _

    .AddConnector(msoConnectorCurve, 0, 0, 100, 100)

With newConnector.ConnectorFormat

    .BeginConnect firstRect, 1

    .EndConnect secondRect, 1

End With

newConnector.RerouteConnections
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [ShapeRange Object](0a194183-380e-ffb6-9336-b5bd311e917d.md)
#### Other resources


 [ShapeRange Object Members](cf57a537-e6cd-ad43-45db-0683e288e850.md)
