
# SeriesCollection Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a collection of all the  ** [Series](5c8c2d92-d8ca-4d21-e213-c374292275d4.md)** objects in the specified chart or chart group.

## Remarks

Use the  ** [SeriesCollection](8adeb8b4-ba4f-6cdf-33bf-dceb1845dfb8.md)** method to return the **SeriesCollection** collection.


## Example




 **Note**  Although the following code applies to Microsoft Word, you can readily modify it to apply to PowerPoint.

 Use the ** [Extend](f5ac6da3-90c7-d938-9a95-e87d228d901d.md)** method to extend an existing series. The following example adds the data in cells C6:C10 in the chart's worksheet to an existing series in the series collection of the chart.




```
With ActiveDocument.InlineShapes(1)

    If .HasChart Then

        .Chart.SeriesCollection.Extend "='Sheet1'!$C$6:$C$10"

    End If

End With
```




 **Note**  Although the following code applies to Microsoft Word, you can readily modify it to apply to PowerPoint.

Use the  ** [Add](29dd05a7-a707-78ff-fc06-1085e065eb3c.md)** method to create a new series and add it to the chart. The following example adds the data from cells D1:D5 in the chart's worksheet as a new series to the chart.




```
With ActiveDocument.InlineShapes(1)

    If .HasChart Then

        .Chart.SeriesCollection.Add "='Sheet1'!$D$1:$D$5"

    End If

End With
```




 **Note**  Although the following code applies to Microsoft Word, you can readily modify it to apply to PowerPoint.

Use  **SeriesCollection**( _Index_), where  _Index_ is the series index number or name, to return a single **Series** object. The following example sets the color of the interior for the first series in embedded chart one the active document.




```
With ActiveDocument.InlineShapes(1)

    If .HasChart Then

        .Chart.SeriesCollection(1).Interior.Color = RGB(255, 0, 0)

    End If

End With
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [SeriesCollection Object Members](37944382-6c45-4868-1c0e-0b76e4fffa37.md)
