
# PrintRange Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single range of consecutive slides or pages to be printed.

## Remarks

 The **PrintRange** object is a member of the ** [PrintRanges](5c1e9dc1-e30c-bc65-5283-448b95795b11.md)**collection. The  **PrintRanges** collection contains all the print ranges that have been defined for the specified presentation.

You can set print ranges in the  **PrintRanges** collection independent of the **RangeType** setting; these ranges are retained as long as the presentation they're contained in is loaded. The ranges in the **PrintRanges** collection are applied when the **RangeType** property is set to **ppPrintSlideRange**.


## Example

Use  **Ranges**(index), where index is the print range index number, to return a single  **PrintRange** object. The following example displays a message that indicates the starting and ending slide numbers for print range one in the active presentation.


```
With ActivePresentation.PrintOptions.Ranges

    If .Count > 0 Then

        With .Item(1)

            MsgBox "Print range 1 starts on slide " &amp; .Start &amp; _

                " and ends on slide " &amp; .End

        End With

    End If

End With
```

Use the  [Add](e5b50370-699b-b904-8ce7-b825f29d0682.md)method to create a  **PrintRange** object and add it to the **PrintRanges** collection. The following example defines three print ranges that represent slide 1, slides 3 through 5, and slides 8 and 9 in the active presentation and then prints the slides in these ranges.




```
With ActivePresentation.PrintOptions

    .RangeType = ppPrintSlideRange

    With .Ranges

        .ClearAll

        .Add 1, 1

        .Add 3, 5

        .Add 8, 9

    End With

End With

ActivePresentation.PrintOut
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [PrintRange Object Members](f9c1a49e-572a-7e48-a6cc-2195391ed435.md)
