
# Shape.Name Property (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


When a shape is created, Microsoft PowerPoint automatically assigns it a name in the form  _ShapeType Number_, where  _ShapeType_ identifies the type of shape or AutoShape, and _Number_ is an integer that's unique within the collection of shapes on the slide. For example, the automatically generated names of the shapes on a slide could be Placeholder 1, Oval 2, and Rectangle 3. To avoid conflict with automatically assigned names, don't use the form _ShapeType Number_ for user-defined names, where _ShapeType_ is a value that is used for automatically generated names, and _Number_ is any positive integer. A shape range must contain exactly one shape. Read/write.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Name**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Shape** object.


### Return Value

String


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use the object's name in conjunction with the  **Item** method to return a reference to the object if the **Item** method for the collection that contains the object takes a **Variant** argument. For example, if the value of the **Name** property for a shape is Rectangle 2, then `.Shapes("Rectangle 2")` will return a reference to that shape.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example sets the name of object two on slide one in the active presentation to "big triangle."


```
ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes(2).Name = "big triangle"
```

This example sets the fill color for the shape named "big triangle" on slide one in the active presentation.




```
ActivePresentation.Slides(1) _

    .Shapes("big triangle").Fill.ForeColor.RGB = RGB(0, 0, 255)
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Shape Object](1da93849-99e0-827e-ced3-c6cf7f8569f3.md)
#### Other resources


 [Shape Object Members](e371c375-c16a-33ef-32b7-6dcb99d3d128.md)
