
# FileConverter Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a file converter that is used to open or save files. The  **FileConverter** object is a member of the **FileConverters**collection. The  ** [FileConverters](b175c08d-a910-636e-cdbe-d4f0e6af595e.md)** collection contains all the installed file converters for opening and saving files.

## Remarks

Use  **FileConverters**(Index), where Index is a class name or index number, to return a single  **FileConverter** object. The following example displays the extensions associated with the Microsoft Excel worksheet converter.


```
MsgBox FileConverters("MSBiff").Extensions
```

The index number represents the position of the file converter in the  ** [FileConverters](b175c08d-a910-636e-cdbe-d4f0e6af595e.md)** collection. The following example displays the format name of the first file converter.




```
MsgBox FileConverters(1).FormatName
```

You cannot create a new file converter or add one to the  ** [FileConverters](b175c08d-a910-636e-cdbe-d4f0e6af595e.md)** collection. **FileConverter** objects are added during installation of Microsoft Office or by installing supplemental file converters. Use either the ** [CanSave](64e1f21f-786e-8003-f99e-0dcb093af9d3.md)**or  ** [CanOpen](9a5a2fea-0f09-9dfe-c75a-e8811d53c27f.md)**property to determine whether a  **FileConverter** object can be used to open or save document.

File converters for saving documents are listed in the  **Save As** dialog box. File converters for opening documents appear in a dialog box if the **Confirm conversion at Open** check box is selected on the **General** tab in the **Options** dialog box.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [FileConverter Object Members](a9aa2b7a-c8fc-66ca-6e2c-b69da105de50.md)
