
# PublishObjects Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [PublishObject](9419bec4-d2a6-6a2c-6400-4e2e270ff603.md)**objects representing the set of complete or partial loaded presentations that are available for publishing to HTML.

## Remarks

You can specify the content and attributes of the published presentation by setting various properties of the  **PublishObject** object. For example, the [SourceType](3714155e-b42f-8396-af66-6a1635f8631a.md)property defines the portion of a loaded presentation to be published. The  [RangeStart](c7b576f4-f001-994a-ef36-0ed9402960a2.md)property and the  [RangeEnd](3edce18e-31c5-4585-9ca5-adb8cbdbca17.md)property specify the range of slides to publish, and the  [SpeakerNotes](2dabb3db-4f94-c640-2c4d-d6c10551f903.md)property designates whether or not to publish the speaker's notes.

You cannot add to the  **PublishObjects** collection.


## Example

Use the  **PublishObjects** property to return the **PublishObjects** collection. This example publishes slides three through five of the active presentation to HTML. It names the published presentation Mallard.htm.


```
With ActivePresentation.PublishObjects(1)

    .FileName = "C:\Test\Mallard.htm"

    .SourceType = ppPublishSlideRange

    .RangeStart = 3

    .RangeEnd = 5

    .Publish

End With
```

Use  **Item**(index), where index is always "1", to return the single  **PublishObject** object for a loaded presentation. There can be only one **PublishObject** object for each loaded presentation.

This example defines the  **PublishObject** object to be the entire active presentation by setting the **SourceType** property to **ppPublishAll**.




```
ActivePresentation.PublishObjects.Item(1).SourceType = ppPublishAll
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [PublishObjects Object Members](2b36cc36-cdfa-1b6c-4fa3-4794260217a6.md)
