
# AddIns Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [AddIn](e98b609e-97ef-b471-f047-b647bff1e9af.md)**objects that represent all the Microsoft PowerPoint-specific add-ins available to PowerPoint, regardless of whether or not they are loaded. This does not include Component Object Model (COM) add-ins.

## Example

Use the  **AddIns** method to return the **AddIns** collection. The following example displays the names of all the add-ins that are currently loaded in PowerPoint.


```
For Each ad In AddIns

    If ad.Loaded Then MsgBox ad.Name

Next
```

Use the  ** [Add](e476e0dc-e82b-c460-822b-def325330514.md)**method to add a PowerPoint-specific add-in to the list of those available. The  **Add** method adds an add-in to the list but does not load the add-in. To load the add-in, set the [Loaded](8becb17d-dbe4-b151-e66b-3463f3a862f5.md)property of the add-in to  **True** after you use the **Add** method. You can perform these two actions in a single step, as shown in the following example (note that you use the name of the add-in, not its title, with the **Add** method).




```
AddIns.Add("graphdrs.ppa").Loaded = True
```

Use  **AddIns**(index), where index is the add-in's title or index number, to return a single  **AddIn** object. The following example loads the hypothetical add-in titled "my ppt tools".




```
AddIns("my ppt tools").Loaded = True
```

Do not confuse the add-in title with the add-in name, which is the file name of the add-in. You must spell the add-in title exactly as it is spelled in the  **Add-Ins** tab, but the capitalization does not have to match.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [AddIns Object Members](b8cb3aa4-311f-484d-b959-4e2c0ad1f1e9.md)
