
# SlideRange.Shapes Property (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns a  ** [Shapes](eb208855-254e-1a0f-884b-4a5edcfd584d.md)**collection that represents all the elements that have been placed or inserted on the specified slide, slide master, or range of slides. Read-only.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Shapes**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **SlideRange** object.


### Return Value

Shapes


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **Shapes** collection returned can contain the drawings, shapes, OLE objects, pictures, text objects, titles, headers, footers, slide numbers, and date and time objects on a slide, or on the slide image on a notes page.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example adds a rectangle that's 100 points wide and 50 points high, and whose upper-left corner is 5 points from the left edge of slide one in the active presentation and 25 points from the top of the slide.


```
Set firstSlide = ActivePresentation.Slides(1)

firstSlide.Shapes.AddShape msoShapeRectangle, 5, 25, 100, 50
```

This example sets the fill texture for shape three on slide one in the active presentation.




```
Set newRect = ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes(3)

newRect.Fill.PresetTextured msoTextureOak
```

Assuming that slide one in the active presentation contains a title, both the second and third lines of code in the following example set the title text on slide one in the presentation.




```
Set firstSl = ActivePresentation.Slides(1)

firstSl.Shapes.Title.TextFrame.TextRange.Text = "Some title text"

firstSl.Shapes(1).TextFrame.TextRange.Text = "Other title text"
```

Assuming that shape two on slide two in the active presentation contains a text frame, the following example adds a series of paragraphs to the slide. Note that  `Chr(13)` is used to insert paragraph marks within the text.




```
Set tShape = ActivePresentation.Slides(2).Shapes(2)

tShape.TextFrame.TextRange.Text = "First Item" &amp; Chr(13) &amp; _

    "Second Item" &amp; Chr(13) &amp; "Third Item"
```

For most slide layouts, the first shapes on the slide are text placeholders, and the following example accomplishes the same task as the preceding example.




```
Set testShape = ActivePresentation.Slides(2).Shapes.Placeholders(2)

testShape.TextFrame.TextRange.Text = "First Item" &amp; _

    Chr(13) &amp; "Second Item" &amp; Chr(13) &amp; "Third Item"
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [SlideRange Object](440ab59d-744a-209f-bf28-d0acd3a21e1a.md)
#### Other resources


 [SlideRange Object Members](f819c56d-96d5-836d-0d1f-49e505696f34.md)
