
# ColorSchemes Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of all the  ** [ColorScheme](c1945542-b628-e2b1-5114-e064f0563a01.md)**objects in the specified presentation. Each  **ColorScheme** object represents a color scheme, which is a set of colors that are used together on a slide.

## Example

Use the  [ColorSchemes](4782ee52-3bdd-4459-56da-609a92816692.md)property to return the  **ColorSchemes** collection. Use **ColorSchemes**(index), where index is the color scheme index number, to return a single  **ColorScheme** object. The following example deletes color scheme two from the active presentation.


```
ActivePresentation.ColorSchemes(2).Delete
```

Use the  [Add](1e727a60-0e19-e033-2dc2-c00083263e06.md)method to create a new color scheme and add it to the  **ColorSchemes** collection. The following example adds a color scheme to the active presentation and sets the title color and background color for the color scheme (because no argument was used with the **Add** method, the added color scheme is initially identical to the first standard color scheme in the presentation).




```
With ActivePresentation.ColorSchemes.Add

    .Colors(ppTitle).RGB = RGB(255, 0, 0)

    .Colors(ppBackground).RGB = RGB(128, 128, 0)

End With
```

Set the  [ColorScheme](3d40d93f-4e7d-e95f-8340-d138da2a1b55.md)property of a  **Slide**,  **SlideRange**, or  **Master** object to return the color scheme for one slide, a set of slides, or a master, respectively. The following example sets the color scheme for all the slides in the active presentation to the third color scheme in the presentation.




```
With ActivePresentation

    .Slides.Range.ColorScheme = .ColorSchemes(3)

End With
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [ColorSchemes Object Members](df8e06a1-6c6b-1852-cb1f-e26929ba9bfa.md)
