
# FileConverters Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [FileConverter](6baf5bd8-6644-0784-a049-96c3d733043f.md)**objects that represent all the file converters available for opening and saving files.

## Remarks

Use the  **FileConverters** property to return the **FileConverters** collection. The following example determines whether a WordPerfect 6.0 converter is available.


```
For Each conv In FileConverters

    If conv.FormatName = "WordPerfect 6.x" Then

        MsgBox "WordPerfect 6.0 converter is installed"

    End if

Next conv
```

The  **Add** method isn't available for the **FileConverters** collection. ** [FileConverter](6baf5bd8-6644-0784-a049-96c3d733043f.md)** objects are added during installation of Microsoft Office or by installing supplemental converters.

Use  **FileConverters**(Index), where Index is a class name or index number, to return a single  ** [FileConverter](6baf5bd8-6644-0784-a049-96c3d733043f.md)** object. The following example displays the extensions associated wtih the Microsoft Excel worksheet converter.




```
MsgBox FileConverters("MSBiff").Extensions
```

The index number represents the position of the file converter in the  **FileConverters** collection. The following example displays the format name of the first file converter.




```
MsgBox FileConverters(1).FormatName
```

File converters for saving documents are listed in the  **Save As** dialog box. File converters for opening documents appear in a dialog box if the **Confirm conversion at Open** check box is selected on the **General** tab in the **Options** dialog box.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [FileConverters Object Members](99224ae3-3fe9-5f30-78d0-71280ae1fc9d.md)
