
# Slides Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of all the  ** [Slide](afe42344-6898-00d2-ecc1-b0ed23a71fe8.md)** objects in the specified presentation.

## Remarks

If your Visual Studio solution includes the  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.PowerPoint** reference, this collection maps to the following types:


-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.PowerPoint.Slides.GetEnumerator** (to enumerate the **Slide** objects.)
    
The following examples describe how to:


- Create a slide and add it to the collection
    
- Return a single slide that you specify by name, index number, or slide ID number
    
- Return a subset of the slides in the presentation
    
- Apply a property or method to all the slides in the presentation at the same time
    

## Example

Use the  [Slides](bf481c73-3508-a074-eb2c-a5df62e55a5c.md) property to return a **Slides** collection. Use the [Add](9a09ad9b-c52d-9fd6-20ef-68b694596ed2.md) method to create a new slide and add it to the collection. The following example adds a new slide to the active presentation.


```
ActivePresentation.Slides.Add 2, ppLayoutBlank
```

Use  **Slides**(index), where index is the slide name or index number, or use the  **Slides.FindBySlideID**(index), where index is the slide ID number, to return a single  **Slide** object. The following example sets the layout for slide one in the active presentation.




```
ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Layout = ppLayoutTitle
```

The following example sets the layout for the slide named "Big Chart" in the active presentation. Note that slides are assigned automatically generated names of the form Sliden (where n is an integer) when they're created. To assign a more meaningful name to a slide, use the  [Name](11d6a295-02b6-3cf2-0e8b-42637e3b1f11.md) property.




```
ActivePresentation.Slides("Big Chart").Layout = ppLayoutTitle
```

Use  **Slides.Range**(index), where index is the slide index number or name or an array of slide index numbers or an array of slide names, to return a  ** [SlideRange](440ab59d-744a-209f-bf28-d0acd3a21e1a.md)** object that represents a subset of the **Slides** collection. The following example sets the background fill for slides one and three in the active presentation.




```
With ActivePresentation.Slides.Range(Array(1, 3)) 
    .FollowMasterBackground = False 
    .Background.Fill.PresetGradient msoGradientHorizontal, _ 
        1, msoGradientLateSunset 
End With
```

If you want to do something to all the slides in your presentation at the same time (such as delete all of them or set a property for all of them), use  **Slides.Range** with no argument to construct a **SlideRange** collection that contains all the slides in the **Slides** collection, and then apply the appropriate property or method to the **SlideRange** collection. The following example sets the background fill for all the slides in the active presentation




```
With ActivePresentation.Slides.Range 
    .FollowMasterBackground = False 
    .Background.Fill.PresetGradient msoGradientHorizontal, _ 
        1, msoGradientLateSunset 
End With
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [Slides Object Members](2f918722-1ae2-721e-7d83-e2ebca4e482a.md)
