
# Hyperlink Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a hyperlink associated with a non-placeholder shape or text. 

## Remarks

You can use a hyperlink to jump to an Internet or intranet site, to another file, or to a slide within the active presentation. The  **Hyperlink** object is a member of the ** [Hyperlinks](33a3fe49-6302-0f53-22f6-b8b1594d5d57.md)**collection. The  **Hyperlinks** collection contains all the hyperlinks on a slide or a master.


## Example

Use the  [Hyperlink](8654000a-bbc5-6d23-e5a7-d689bc767b1b.md)property to return a hyperlink for a shape. A shape can have two different hyperlinks assigned to it: one that is followed when the user clicks the shape during a slide show, and another that is followed when the user passes the mouse pointer over the shape during a slide show. For the hyperlink to be active during a slide show, the  **Action** property must be set to **ppActionHyperlink**. The following example sets the mouse-click action for shape three on slide one in the active presentation to an Internet link.


```
With ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes(3) _

        .ActionSettings(ppMouseClick)

    .Action = ppActionHyperlink

    .Hyperlink.Address = "http://www.microsoft.com"

End With
```

A slide can contain more than one hyperlink. Each non-placeholder shape can have a hyperlink; the text within a shape can have its own hyperlink; and each individual character can have its own hyperlink. Use  **Hyperlinks**(index), where index is the hyperlink number, to return a single  **Hyperlink** object. The following example adds the shape three mouse-click hyperlink to the Favorites folder.




```
ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes(3) _

    .ActionSettings(ppMouseClick).Hyperlink.AddToFavorites
```


 **Note**  When you use this method to add a hyperlink to the Internet Explorer Favorites folder, an icon is added to the  **Favorites** menu without a corresponding name. You must add the name from within Internet Explorer.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [Hyperlink Object Members](3fe9e1b1-ab3e-575d-81d8-7e61fcc68214.md)
