
# PrintOptions.Ranges Property (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns the  ** [PrintRanges](5c1e9dc1-e30c-bc65-5283-448b95795b11.md)** object, which represents the ranges of slides in the presentation to be printed. Read-only.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Ranges**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **PrintOptions** object.


### Return Value

PrintRanges


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If you don't want to print an entire presentation, you must use the  ** [Add](e5b50370-699b-b904-8ce7-b825f29d0682.md)**method to create a  ** [PrintRange](62f098b3-5e67-8fa4-3af9-4507160fa1ad.md)**object for each consecutive run of slides you want to print. For example, if you want to print slide 1, slides 3 through 5, and slides 8 and 9 in a specified presentation, you must create three  **PrintRange** objects: one that represents slide 1; one that represents slides 3 through 5; and one that represents slides 8 and 9. For more information, see the example for this property.

The  ** [RangeType](51d48974-16c9-0b96-9feb-651ca6347587.md)**property must be set to  **ppPrintSlideRange** for the ranges in the **PrintRanges** collection to be applied.

To clear all the existing print ranges from the  **PrintRanges** collection, use the ** [ClearAll](3e177e7c-486e-a938-cf80-2f13b018094a.md)**method.

Specifying a value for the  **To** and **From** arguments of the ** [PrintOut](57685390-43c1-4bd4-d2ee-ba34641e34c5.md)**method sets the contents of the  ** [PrintRanges](5c1e9dc1-e30c-bc65-5283-448b95795b11.md)**object.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example prints slide 1, slides 3 through 5, and slides 8 and 9 in the active presentation.


```
With ActivePresentation

    With .PrintOptions

        .RangeType = ppPrintSlideRange

        With .Ranges

            .Add 1, 1

            .Add 3, 5

            .Add 8, 9

        End With

    End With

    .PrintOut

End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [PrintOptions Object](19ce56ba-b0d0-4086-db86-e32feade70bd.md)
#### Other resources


 [PrintOptions Object Members](910ad0bd-7983-b94e-0055-c7f46442c097.md)
