
# Placeholders Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of all the  **Shape** objects that represent placeholders on the specified slide.

## Remarks

 Each **Shape** object in the **Placeholders** collection represents a placeholder for text, a chart, a table, an organizational chart, or some other type of object. If the slide has a title, the title is the first placeholder in the collection.

You can delete individual placeholders by using the  [Delete](a132067b-b8d7-0730-5dec-2df666eac209.md)method, and you can restore deleted placeholders by using the  [AddPlaceholder](10927d59-1810-2f91-eb52-c42113570ccc.md)method, but you cannot add any more placeholders to a slide than it had when it was created. To change the number of placeholders on a given slide, set the  [Layout](681819b8-327e-fb6f-e9d2-0f8feb48ec36.md)property.


## Example

Use the  [Placeholders](2926d893-056a-0805-85ba-681e64bf81ed.md)property to return the  **Placeholders** collection. Use **Placeholders**(index), where index is the placeholder index number, to return a  **Shape** object that represents a single placeholder. Note that for any slide that has a title, `Shapes`.Title is equivalent to  `Shapes.Placeholders(1)`.The following example adds a new slide with a Bulleted List slide layout to the beginning of the presentation, sets the text for the title, and then adds two paragraphs to the text placeholder.


```
Set sObj = ActivePresentation.Slides.Add(1, ppLayoutText).Shapes

sObj.Title.TextFrame.TextRange.Text = "This is the title text"

sObj.Placeholders(2).TextFrame.TextRange.Text = _

    "Item 1" &amp; Chr(13) &amp; "Item 2"
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [Placeholders Object Members](3c2b0314-d29c-9926-0c0d-fc33a24128ef.md)
