
# Series.DataLabels Method (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns an object that represents either a single data label (a  ** [DataLabel](a17d23c5-0361-9129-28e5-b892f6966bda.md)** object) or a collection of all the data labels for the series (a ** [DataLabels](a0d0b0ec-6a12-9a5c-1026-1e1d85e488fa.md)**collection).


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **DataLabels**( **_Index_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Series](5c8c2d92-d8ca-4d21-e213-c374292275d4.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Index|Optional| **Variant**|The number of the data label.|

### Return Value

An object that represents either a single data label (a  **DataLabel** object) or a collection of all the data labels for the series (a **DataLabels**collection).


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If the series has the  **Show Value** option turned on for the data labels, the returned collection can contain up to one label for each point. Data labels can be turned on or off for individual points in the series.

If the series is on an area chart and has the  **Show Label** option turned on for the data labels, the returned collection contains only a single label, which is the label for the area series.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>




 **Note**  Although the following code applies to Microsoft Word, you can readily modify it to apply to PowerPoint.

The following example sets the data labels for series one for the first chart in the active document to show their key, assuming that their values are visible when the example runs.




```
With ActiveDocument.InlineShapes(1)

    If .HasChart Then

        With .Chart.SeriesCollection(1)

            .HasDataLabels = True

            With .DataLabels

                .ShowLegendKey = True

                .Type = xlValue

            End With

        End With

    End If

End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Series Object](5c8c2d92-d8ca-4d21-e213-c374292275d4.md)
#### Other resources


 [Series Object Members](f7e7168d-3c6f-20db-1e75-56a101c69a70.md)
