
# AddIn Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single add-in, either loaded or not loaded. 

## Remarks

The  **AddIn** object is a member of the ** [AddIns](8308fd95-a220-469e-c33b-cc46ad1b27b8.md)**collection. The  **AddIns** collection contains all of the Microsoft PowerPoint-specific add-ins available, regardless of whether or not they are loaded. The collection does not include Component Object Model (COM) add-ins.


## Example

Use  **AddIns**(index), where index is the add-in's title or index number, to return a single  **AddIn** object. The following example loads the My Ppt Tools add-in.


```
AddIns("my ppt tools").Loaded = True
```

The add-in title, shown above, should not be confused with the add-in name, which is the file name of the add-in. You must spell the add-in title exactly as it is spelled in the  **Add-Ins** tab, but the capitalization does not have to match.

The index number represents the position of the add-in in the  **Add-Ins** tab. The following example displays the names of all the add-ins that are currently loaded in PowerPoint.




```
For i = 1 To AddIns.Count

    If AddIns(i).Loaded Then MsgBox AddIns(i).Name

Next
```

Use the  [Add](e476e0dc-e82b-c460-822b-def325330514.md)method to add a PowerPoint-specific add-in to the list of those available. Note, however, that using this method does not load the add-in. To load the add-in, set the  [Loaded](8becb17d-dbe4-b151-e66b-3463f3a862f5.md)property of the add-in to  **True** after you use the **Add** method. You can perform both of these actions in a single step, as shown in the following example (note that you use the name of the add-in, not its title, with the **Add** method).




```
AddIns.Add("generic.ppa").Loaded = True
```

Use  **AddIns**(index), where index is the add-in's title, to return a reference to the loaded add-in. The following example sets the  `presAddin` variable to the add-in titled "my ppt tools" and sets the `myName` variable to the name of the add-in.




```
Set presAddin = AddIns("my ppt tools")

With presAddin

    myName = .Name

End With
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [AddIn Object Members](7bc32318-9bd6-8167-4d61-d6bfeae55028.md)
