
# Shapes Object (PowerPoint)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of all the  ** [Shape](1da93849-99e0-827e-ced3-c6cf7f8569f3.md)**objects on the specified slide. 

## Remarks

Each  **Shape** object represents an object in the drawing layer, such as an AutoShape, freeform, OLE object, or picture.


 **Note**  If you want to work with a subset of the shapes on a document — for example, to do something to only the AutoShapes on the document or to only the selected shapes — you must construct a  ** [ShapeRange](0a194183-380e-ffb6-9336-b5bd311e917d.md)**collection that contains the shapes you want to work with. For an overview of how to work either with a single shape or with more than one shape at a time, see  [How to: Work with Shapes (Drawing Objects)](3ffaaaea-6406-262b-2bc7-788699175266.md).


## Example

Use the  **Shapes** property to return the **Shapes** collection. The following example selects all the shapes in the active presentation.


```
ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes.SelectAll
```


 **Note**  If you want to do something (like delete or set a property) to all the shapes on a document at the same time, use the  [Range](5ee926d9-5b30-a26b-7365-f4709a1a7bdb.md)method with no argument to create a  **ShapeRange** object that contains all the shapes in the **Shapes** collection, and then apply the appropriate property or method to the **ShapeRange** object.

Use the  [AddCallout](e4b468d7-793a-09ae-fcfc-6a73db93c90e.md),  [AddComment](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/11347ca1-cef3-0923-2544-cb80e7fc5768%28Office.15%29.aspx),  [AddConnector](407eee86-11c1-7bee-ed25-aba71a930a1c.md),  [AddCurve](47f90182-a71b-a028-c43f-a85d59d2a56b.md),  [AddLabel](b744daf1-5b99-9649-8b97-d3f2193373c1.md),  [AddLine](9dbe640b-5ba4-a620-d3c6-4a2d0cc2bc27.md),  [AddMediaObject](7e2ab704-7fd4-86d7-3f61-8d69c13b5685.md),  [AddOLEObject](88a5aa63-0531-b9d8-43d2-5a995b91b189.md),  [AddPicture](af432432-b09b-3ca6-d392-132bd78251c7.md),  [AddPlaceholder](10927d59-1810-2f91-eb52-c42113570ccc.md),  [AddPolyline](e42c4f7a-de68-88bf-d250-28e642b56232.md),  [AddShape](2bc6cce5-3461-61ff-083d-bd36ee71cb59.md),  [AddTable](77ce193e-10f7-25f4-a6f8-99d7d2b781ad.md),  [AddTextbox](0c7c6093-48f6-e1f1-1837-e69d6ef13e57.md),  [AddTextEffect](4428ac57-c704-475a-1640-78a556e9ac3d.md), or  [AddTitle](1fe13529-526a-1b29-7589-c155f9e46379.md)method to create a new shape and add it to the  **Shapes** collection. Use the [BuildFreeform](330ea348-9f8c-c418-d67f-e4fd6c105c59.md)method in conjunction with the  [ConvertToShape](bc3d209e-6735-3011-9334-46049d269355.md)method to create a new freeform and add it to the collection. The following example adds a rectangle to the active presentation.




```
ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes.AddShape Type:=msoShapeRectangle, _

    Left:=50, Top:=50, Width:=100, Height:=200
```

Use  **Shapes**(index), where index is the shape's name or index number, to return a single  **Shape** object. The following example sets the fill to a preset shade for shape one in the active presentation.




```
ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes(1).Fill _

    .PresetGradient Style:=msoGradientHorizontal, Variant:=1, _

    PresetGradientType:=msoGradientBrass
```

Use  **Shapes.Range**(index), where index is the shape's name or index number or an array of shape names or index numbers, to return a  ** [ShapeRange](0a194183-380e-ffb6-9336-b5bd311e917d.md)**collection that represents a subset of the  **Shapes** collection. The following example sets the fill pattern for shapes one and three in the active presentation.




```
ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Shapes.Range(Array(1, 3)).Fill _

    .Patterned Pattern:=msoPatternHorizontalBrick
```

Use  **Shapes.Placeholders**(index), where index is the placeholder number, to return a  **Shape** object that represents a placeholder. If the specified slide has a title, use **Shapes.Placeholders(1)** or **Shapes.Title** to return the title placeholder. The following example adds a slide to the active presentation and then adds text to both the title and the subtitle (the subtitle is the second placeholder on a slide with this layout).




```
With ActivePresentation.Slides.Add(Index:=1, Layout:=ppLayoutTitle).Shapes

    .Title.TextFrame.TextRange = "This is the title text"

    .Placeholders(2).TextFrame.TextRange = "This is subtitle text"

End With
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [PowerPoint Object Model Reference](00acd64a-5896-0459-39af-98df2849849e.md)
#### Other resources


 [Shapes Object Members](75a4880e-71e1-fe10-a719-f7c13389a74e.md)
