
# Documents.Open Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Opens an existing file so that it can be edited.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Open**( **_FileName_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Documents** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|FileName|Required| **String**|The name of a file to open.|

### Return Value

Document


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

When you use the  **Open** method to open a **Document** object, it opens a Microsoft Visio file as an original. Depending on the file name extension, the **Open** method opens a drawing (.vsd), a stencil (.vss), a template (.vst), a workspace (.vsw), an XML drawing (.vdx), an XML stencil (.vsx), or an XML template (.vtx). You can also use this method to open and convert non-Visio files to Visio files. If the file does not exist or the file name is invalid, no **Document** object is returned and an error is generated.

If you pass a valid stencil (.vss) file name, the original stencil file opens. Starting with Microsoft Office Visio 2003, only user-created stencils are editable. By default, Visio stencils are not editable. Unless you want to create or edit the masters, open a stencil as read-only.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to open a blank document, a new document based on a template, and an existing document. 

Before running this macro, replace  _path_\ _filename_ with the path to and file name of a valid template file (.vst) on your computer.




```
 
Public Sub OpenDocument_Example() 
 
 Dim vsoDocument As Visio.Document 
 
 'Open a blank document (not based on a template). 
 Set vsoDocument = Documents.Add("") 
 
 'Open a new document based on a template. 
 Set vsoDocument = Documents.Add _ 
 ("path\filename") 
 
 'Open an existing document. 
 Set vsoDocument = Documents.Open _ 
 ("path\filename") 
 
End Sub 

```

