
# ApplicationSettings.StencilLinesPerMaster Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


For shapes on stencils in Microsoft Visio, determines how many lines of text of each shape's name can appear below the shape before the text is truncated and "..." is appended. Read/write.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **StencilLinesPerMaster**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **ApplicationSettings** object.


### Return Value

 **Long**


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Setting the  **StencilLinesPerMaster** property is equivalent to setting the **Lines per master** option under **Stencil spacing** on the **Advanced** tab in the **Visio Options** dialog box (click the **File** tab, and then click **Options**).

The minimum value for  **StencilLinesPerMaster** is 1 line per master and the maximum is 4. By default, Visio displays 2 lines per master.

This property affects the overall spacing of shapes on a stencil, which affects how many shapes users can see without scrolling.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to use the  **StencilCharactersPerLine** property to print the current number of stencil lines per master in the Immediate window. It also shows how to get an **ApplicationSettings** object from the Visio **Application** object.


```
Public Sub StencilLinesPerMaster_Example() 
 
    Dim vsoApplicationSettings As Visio.ApplicationSettings 
    Dim lngLinesPerMaster As Long 
 
    Set vsoApplicationSettings = Visio.Application.Settings 
    lngLinesPerMaster = vsoApplicationSettings.StencilLinesPerMaster 
 
    Debug.Print lngLinesPerMaster 
 
End Sub 
 

```

