
# Page.DropContainer Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Creates a new container  ** [Shape](da7a8872-4ebb-a607-e0ed-eebf68ff5630.md)** object on the page, places the container around the specified target shapes, and adds the target shapes to the container. Returns the container shape.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **DropContainer**( **_ObjectToDrop_**,  **_TargetShapes_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Page](7a7f37ab-b448-eb70-b4f1-c185dfbd511e.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ObjectToDrop|Required| **[UNKNOWN]**|The container shape to add to the page. Can be a  ** [Master](1a69e4d7-2b72-f712-d36c-c565af64c278.md)**,  ** [MasterShortcut](ada22e59-5bda-2dd7-33bc-1e26e95adc31.md)**,  **Shape**, or  **IDataObject** object.|
|TargetShapes|Required| **[UNKNOWN]**|The shapes that the container should contain. Can be a  **Shape** or a ** [Selection](e5734140-6dbe-7de8-9695-1a22fb4ac628.md)** object. The shapes or selection must already be on the page.|

### Return Value

 **Shape**


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

To pass a  **Master** object for the _ObjectToDrop_ parameter, use the ** [Documents.OpenEx](86b26b53-c555-2d36-74d6-0d2a4d81971c.md)** method and the ** [Application.GetBuiltInStencilFile](2ae65aaa-d441-c7e8-3c8c-737bcca84738.md)** method, passing it **visBuiltInStencilContainers**, to open the hidden, built-in container stencil. Then use the  ** [Masters.ItemU](fa4e26a1-21d1-04bf-4fd8-83049cc0a5df.md)** property to get the particular container that you want from the stencil.

An  **IDataObject** that you pass for _ObjectToDrop_ must be provided by Microsoft Visio and must be in the same process space as Visio.

If  _ObjectToDrop_ is not a Visio object, or if it is not a container, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error. If the value you pass is a shape that does not match the context of the method, Visio returns an Invalid Source error.

If the  _TargetShapes_ parameter is **Nothing**, Visio places the container shape at the center of the page, devoid of any target shapes. If the specified target shapes are not top-level members of the page, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error.

The  **DropContainer** method corresponds to the **Insert Container** command in the Visio user interface. (On the **Insert** tab, click **Container**.)


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example shows how to use the  **DropContainer** method to add a container from the hidden, built-in container stencil to the active page to contain the selected shape or shapes. Before running this macro, be sure that there is a selected shape (or a selection of shapes) on the active page.


```
Public Sub DropContainer_Example()

    Dim vsoDocument As Visio.Document
    Set vsoDocument = Application.Documents.OpenEx(Application.GetBuiltInStencilFile(visBuiltInStencilContainers, visMSUS), visOpenHidden)
    Application.ActivePage.DropContainer vsoDocument.Masters.ItemU("Container 1"), Application.ActiveWindow.Selection
    vsoDocument.Close
    
End Sub
```

