
# VisWebPageSettings.QuietMode Property (Visio Save As Web)

 **Last modified:** June 07, 2012

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Determines whether dialog boxes are displayed in the Visio user interface when you save a drawing as a Web page. Read/write.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **QuietMode**

 _expression_An expression that returns a  ** [VisWebPageSettings](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/14280ea7-e8b1-d4b2-941b-121f2c17f787%28Office.15%29.aspx)** object.


### Return Value

 **Long**


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Set  **QuietMode** to a non-zero value ( **True**) to prevent modal dialog boxes from appearing in the user interface when a drawing is saved as a Web page; set it to zero ( **False**) to display dialog boxes with default settings. The default is  **False**.

Setting the  **QuietMode** property to **True** prevents modal dialog boxes from appearing in the Microsoft Visio user interface; however, the **Save As Web Page** progress bar is displayed while the page is being created.

To prevent the user interface from appearing entirely, use the  ** [SilentMode](93161e3b-3469-3b86-5143-3ea42229eeea.md)** property.

If both the  **QuietMode** and **SilentMode** properties are set to **True**, the  **SilentMode** property takes precedence and no user interface is displayed.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following macro shows how to set the  **QuietMode** property to **True** before saving the drawing as a Web page. Setting this value to **True** prevents modal dialog boxes from appearing in the user interface—only the progress bar appears. Because the ** [OpenBrowser](701defdf-9f1c-b136-0af5-48605d255f88.md)** property is set to **True**, the drawing opens in the browser.

Before running this macro, replace  _path\filename.htm_ with a valid target path on your computer and the filename that you want to assign to your Web page.




```
Public Sub QuietMode_Example() 
 Dim vsoSaveAsWeb As VisSaveAsWeb 
 Dim vsowebSettings As VisWebPageSettings 
 
 Set vsoSaveAsWeb = Visio.Application.SaveAsWebObject 
 Set vsoWebSettings = vsoSaveAsWeb.WebPageSettings 
 
 With vsoWebSettings 
 .QuietMode = True 
 .OpenBrowser = True 
 .TargetPath = "path\filename.htm" 
 End With 
 
 vsoSaveAsWeb.CreatePages 
End Sub
```

