
# Application.QueryCancelSuspend Event (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Occurs before the operating system enters a suspended state. If any event handler returns  **True**, the Microsoft Visio instance will deny the operating system's request.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

Private Sub  _expression__**QueryCancelSuspend**( **_ByVal app As [IVAPPLICATION]_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|app|Required| **[IVAPPLICATION]**|The instance of Visio that responds to the operating system request.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 You will typically respond **False** and allow the operating system to enter a suspended state. If you have open network files, you can close them when you receive the **BeforeSuspend** event. If you have open network files that you cannot close, you can return **True** and Visio will deny the operating system's request.




- If any event handler returns  **True** (cancel), the instance fires **SuspendCanceled** and does not enter a suspended state.
    
- If all handlers return  **False** (don't cancel), the instance fires **BeforeSuspend** and then enters a suspended state.
    


If your solution runs outside the Visio process, you cannot be assured of receiving this event. For this reason, you should monitor window messages in your program.

While a Visio instance is firing a query or cancel event, it responds to inquiries from client code but refuses to perform operations. Client code can show forms or message boxes while responding to a query or cancel event.

If you are using Microsoft Visual Basic or Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), the syntax in this topic describes a common, efficient way to handle events.

If you want to create your own  **Event** objects, use the **Add** or **AddAdvise** method. To create an **Event** object that runs an add-on, use the **Add** method as it applies to the **EventList** collection. To create an **Event** object that receives notification, use the **AddAdvise** method. To find an event code for the event you want to create, see [Event codes](de8f5c7a-421d-ebcf-22b6-4310a202ef64.md).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This VBA macro shows how to capture the  **QueryCancelSuspend** event and allow the operating system to suspend. Declare a **WithEvents** variable to capture events fired by the **Application** object.


```
 
Public WithEvents vsoApplication As Visio.Application  
  
Private Function vsoApplication_QueryCancelSuspend(ByVal _ 
    IVisioApplication As IVApplication) As Boolean 
  
    'You agree to let the operating system suspend.  
    vsoApplication_QueryCancelSuspend = False 
  
End Function 

```

