
# Shape.BreakLinkToData Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection1)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection2)
 [Example](#sectionSection3)


Breaks the link between the shape and the data row to which it is linked in the specified data recordset.

 **Note**  This Visio object or member is available only to licensed users of Visio Professional 2013.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _expression_. **BreakLinkToData**( **_DataRecordsetID_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **Shape** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|DataRecordsetID|Required| **Long**|The ID of the data recordset containing the data row the shape is linked to.|

### Return Value

Nothing


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Breaking the link between an shape and a data row does not remove shape data (called custom properties in some previous versions of Visio) from the shape, nor does it remove any data graphics associated with the shape.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to use the  **BreakLinkToData** method to break the link between a shape and a data row in a data recordset.

Before running this macro, place a shape on the page, add at least one data recordset to the  ** [DataRecordsets](edf6d0dc-2f16-eee0-fd4c-ec4c9409179e.md)** collection of the document, and use any linking method to link the shape to a data row in the data recordset you most recently added to the collection. Alternatively, you could link the shape to a data row by dragging the row from the **External Data** window onto the shape in the Visio user interface. Then select the linked shape.




```
Public Sub BreakLinkToData_Example() 
 
    Dim vsoDataRecordset As Visio.DataRecordset 
    Dim vsoShape As Visio.Shape 
    Dim intCount As Integer 
         
    intCount = Visio.ActiveDocument.DataRecordsets.Count 
    Set vsoDataRecordset = Visio.ActiveDocument.DataRecordsets(intCount) 
     
    Set vsoShape = ActiveWindow.Selection.PrimaryItem 
    vsoShape.BreakLinkToData (vsoDataRecordset.ID) 
    
End Sub 

```

