
# Document Object (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Represents a drawing file (.vsd or .vdx), stencil file (.vss or .vsx), or template file (.vst or .vtx) that is open in an instance of Microsoft Visio. A  **Document** object is a member of the **Documents** collection of an **Application** object.


## Remarks

The default property of a  **Document** object is **Name**.

Use the  **Open** method of a **Documents** collection to open an existing document.

Use the  **Add** method of a **Documents** collection to create a new document.

Use the  **ActiveDocument** property of an **Application** object to retrieve the active document in an instance.

Use the  **Pages**,  **Masters**, and  **Styles** properties of a **Document** object to retrieve **Page**,  **Master**, and  **Style** objects, respectively.


 **Note**  

Use the  **CustomMenus** or **CustomToolbars** properties of a **Document** object to access the custom menus or toolbars.


 **Note**   The Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) project of every Visio document also has a class module called **ThisDocument**. When you reference the  **ThisDocument** module from code in a VBA project, it returns a reference to the project's **Document** object. For example, the code in a document's project can display the name of the project's document in a **message** box with this statement:




```
    MsgBox ThisDocument.Name
```

If your Visual Studio solution includes the  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio** reference, this object maps to the following types:


-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio.IVDocument**
    
