
# Page.SelectionAdded Event (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Occurs after one or more shapes are added to a document.


## Syntax

Private Sub  _expression__**SelectionAdded**( **_ByVal Selection As [IVSELECTION]_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Page** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Selection|Required| **[IVSELECTION]**|The selection of shapes that was added to the document.|

## Remarks

A  **Shape** object can serve as the source object for the **SelectionAdded** event if the shape's **Type** property is **visTypeGroup**(2) or  **visTypePage**(1).

The  **SelectionAdded** and **ShapeAdded** events are similar in that they both fire after shape(s) are created. They differ in how they behave when a single operation adds several shapes. Suppose a **Paste** operation creates three new shapes. The **ShapeAdded** event fires three times and acts on each of the three objects. The **SelectionAdded** event fires once, and it acts on a **Selection** object in which the three new shapes are selected.

If you're using Microsoft Visual Basic or Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), the syntax in this topic describes a common, efficient way to handle events.

If you want to create your own  **Event** objects, use the **Add** or **AddAdvise** method. To create an **Event** object that runs an add-on, use the **Add** method as it applies to the **EventList** collection. To create an **Event** object that receives notification, use the **AddAdvise** method. To find an event code for the event you want to create, see [Event codes](de8f5c7a-421d-ebcf-22b6-4310a202ef64.md).




 **Note**  You can use VBA  **WithEvents** variables to sink the **SelectionAdded** event.

For performance considerations, the  **Document** object's event set does not include the **SelectionAdded** event. To sink the **SelectionAdded** event from a **Document** object (and the **ThisDocument** object in a VBA project), you must use the **AddAdvise** method.

