
# Hyperlink.Address Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Gets or sets the address for a shape's  **Hyperlink** object, the address to which the hyperlink navigates. Read/write.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Address**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Hyperlink** object.


### Return Value

String


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Setting the  **Address** property for a **Hyperlink** object is equivalent to entering information in the **Address** box in the **Hyperlinks** dialog box ( **Insert** menu), or setting the result of the Address cell in the shape's Hyperlink. _name_ row in the ShapeSheet window.

The  **Address** property value can be a DOS, UNC, or URL path, for example, _"driveletter"_:\ _"foldername"_\ _"drawingname"_, \\ _"servername"_\ _"foldername"_\ _"drawingname"_, or http:// _address_, respectively.

If the  **Address** property is relative, for example, "..\ _"drawingname"_", it is composed against the  **HyperlinkBase** property, if supplied, or the hyperlink's document path. If the document is not saved, the hyperlink is undefined.

If the  **Address** property is empty, you can assume the address points to a page in the document that contains the page. In this case, the **SubAddress** property contains the name of the drawing page to which the hyperlink navigates.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro sets the  **Address** property of a **Hyperlink** object. Before running this example, replace _address_ with a valid Internet or intranet address.


```
 
Public Sub Address_Example() 
 
 Dim vsoShape As Visio.Shape 
 Dim vsoHyperlink As Visio.Hyperlink 
 
 'Create a new shape to receive the hyperlink 
 Set vsoShape = ActivePage.DrawRectangle(1, 2, 2, 1) 
 Set vsoHyperlink = vsoShape.AddHyperlink 
 
 vsoHyperlink.Description = "Web site" 
 vsoHyperlink.Address = "http://address/" 
 
End Sub 

```

