
# Page.AutoConnectMany Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Automatically draws multiple connections in the specified directions between the specified shapes. Returns the number of shapes connected.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **AutoConnectMany**( **_FromShapeIDs()_**,  **_ToShapeIDs()_**,  **_PlacementDirs()_**,  **_[Connector]_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Page](7a7f37ab-b448-eb70-b4f1-c185dfbd511e.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|FromShapeIDs()|Required| **Long**|An array of identifers of the shapes from which to draw a connection.|
|ToShapeIDs()|Required| **Long**|An array of identifers of the shapes to which to draw a connection.|
|PlacementDirs()|Required| **Long**|An array of  ** [VisAutoConnectDir](369eb3bd-fbf6-b657-8999-00c1540ab2f9.md)** constants that represent the directions in which to draw the connections. See Remarks for possible values.|
|Connector|Optional| **[UNKNOWN]**|The connector to use. Can be a  ** [Master](1a69e4d7-2b72-f712-d36c-c565af64c278.md)**,  ** [MasterShortcut](ada22e59-5bda-2dd7-33bc-1e26e95adc31.md)**,  ** [Shape](da7a8872-4ebb-a607-e0ed-eebf68ff5630.md)**, or  **IDataObject** object.|

### Return Value

 **Long**


## Remarks

For the PlacementDirs() parameter, pass an array of values from the **VisAutoConnectDir** enumeration to specify the connection directions (that is, where to locate the connected shapes with respect to the primary shapes). Possible values forPlacementDirs() are as follows.



|**Constant**|**Value**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|visAutoConnectDirDown|2|Connect down.|
|visAutoConnectDirLeft|3|Connect to the left.|
|visAutoConnectDirNone|0|Connect without relocating the shapes.|
|visAutoConnectDirRight|4|Connect to the right|
|visAutoConnectDirUp|1|Connect up.|
Calling the  **AutoConnectMany** method is equivalent to calling the ** [Shape.AutoConnect](36b634be-9943-1aec-f8e0-70467b82eed1.md)** method multiple times.

You can include the same shape multiple times in each array you pass as a parameter. You cannot use the  **AutoConnectMany** method to connect a shape to itself.

If a particular  **AutoConnectMany** operation fails or is invalid, Microsoft Visio skips it and processes the next item in each of the parameter arrays. **AutoConnectMany** returns the total number of items successfully processed.

If the parameter arrays do not each contain the same number of values, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error.

The optional  _Connector_ parameter value must be an object that references a one-dimensional routable shape. If you do not pass a value for _Connector_, Visio uses the default dynamic connector.

If you use the  **IDataObject** interface to pass a selection of shapes for _Connector_, Visio uses only the first shape. If  _Connector_ is not a Visio object, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error. If _Connector_ is not a shape that matches the context of the method, Visio returns an Invalid Source error.

