
# Cell.Name Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Specifies the name of an object. Read-only.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **Name**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Cell** object.


### Return Value

String


## Remarks

You can get, but not set, the  **Name** property of a **Cell** object. Some cells are in named rows; you can get and set the name of a named row by using the **RowName** property.

A cell has both a local name and a universal name. The local name differs depending on the locale for which the running version of Microsoft Windows is installed. The universal name is the same regardless of what locale is installed. To get the universal name of a cell, use the  **Name** property. To get the local name, use the **LocalName** property.




 **Note**  Beginning with Microsoft Visio 2000, you can use both local and universal names to refer to Visio shapes, masters, documents, pages, rows, add-ons, cells, hyperlinks, styles, fonts, master shortcuts, UI objects, and layers. When a user names a shape, for example, the user is specifying a local name. Beginning with Microsoft Office Visio 2003, the ShapeSheet spreadsheet displays only universal names in cell formulas and values. (In prior versions, universal names were not visible in the user interface.) 

As a developer, you can use universal names in a program when you don't want to change a name each time a solution is localized. Use the  **Name** property to get or set a **Hyperlink**,  **Layer**,  **Master**,  **MasterShortcut**,  **Page**,  **Shape**,  **Style**, or  **Row** object's local name. Use the **NameU** property to get or set its universal name.

