
# VisWebPageSettings.SecFormat Property (Visio Save As Web)

 **Last modified:** June 07, 2012

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Specifies the secondary output format for the Web page. Read/write.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **SecFormat**

 _expression_An expression that returns a  ** [VisWebPageSettings](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/14280ea7-e8b1-d4b2-941b-121f2c17f787%28Office.15%29.aspx)** object.


### Return Value

 **String**


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The secondary output format is used if the browser does not support the primary output format. For example, if the primary format is XAML and the required Silverlight browser plug-in is not installed, the Web page output uses the secondary format.

The primary output format is specified by the  ** [PriFormat](60f9af7d-dc5a-d234-976a-51db21473e28.md)** property. For information about which browsers are compatible with selected formats, see the ** [AltFormat](60f9af7d-dc5a-d234-976a-51db21473e28.md)** property.

Possible values for the  **SecFormat** property are as follows:


- PNG (Portable Network Graphics), the default
    
- JPG (JPEG File Interchage Format)
    
- GIF (Graphics Interchange Format)
    
This value corresponds to the value selected in the list below the  **Provide alternate format for older browsers** check box (if it is selected) on the **Advanced** tab of the **Save as Web Page** dialog box (click the **BackstageButton** tab, click **Save As**, in the  **Save as type** list, select **Web Page (*.htm;*.html)**, click  **Publish**, and then click  **Advanced**).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following macro shows how to use the  **SecFormat** property to set the secondary format value to JPG for browsers that do not support the primary format of XAML (the default).

Before running this macro, replace  _path\filename.htm_ with a valid target path on your computer and the filename that you want to assign to your Web page.




```
Public Sub SecFormat_Example() 
 Dim vsoSaveAsWeb As VisSaveAsWeb 
 Dim vsowebSettings As VisWebPageSettings 
 
 Set vsoSaveAsWeb = Visio.Application.SaveAsWebObject 
 Set vsoWebSettings = vsoSaveAsWeb.WebPageSettings 
 
 With vsoWebSettings 
 .AltFormat = True 
 .SecFormat = "JPG" 
 .TargetPath = "path\filename.htm" 
 End With 
 
 vsoSaveAsWeb.CreatePages 
End Sub
```

