
# About the Visio Drawing Control

 **Last modified:** July 29, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013_

 **In this article**
 [Host container applications that support the Visio Drawing Control](#sectionSection0)
 [Security considerations](#sectionSection1)
 [Run-time requirements and distribution of your application](#sectionSection2)
 [Obtaining support](#sectionSection3)


By using the Visio Drawing Control, you can integrate the Visio drawing surface into your application. 
The Visio Drawing Control is a ActiveX control that provides full access to the Visio object model (API) and user interface so that you can integrate the Visio user interface, customize its appearance, and automate Visio in your applications. The Visio Drawing Control is provided with Microsoft Visio 2013, and is installed when you install Visio.
For more information about including the Visio Drawing Control in your application, see  [About Using the Visio Drawing Control in your Application](04e63921-6a82-deef-f9e3-eaadcfdfdc44.md) in this Automation Reference.

## Host container applications that support the Visio Drawing Control
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

You can embed the Visio Drawing Control in Visual Basic 6.0, Visual C++ 6.0, Visual Studio, and other ActiveX control containers. However, you cannot embed the Visio Drawing Control in another Visio drawing, another ActiveX control, a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) form in Visio, or a Visio solution window.


## Security considerations
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The Visio Drawing Control is targeted for use in an intranet environment. The Visio Drawing Control does not support the  **IObjectSafety** interface. Before it is run in any version of Internet Explorer, the control warns the user that it is an unsafe file (unless the end user's browser security level is set to **Medium**,  **Medium-Low**, or  **Low**). 


## Run-time requirements and distribution of your application
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

A version of Visio that supports the Visio Drawing Control must be installed on any computer where the Visio Drawing Control will be used. When you distribute your application, all users must have licensed copies of a version of Visio that supports the Visio Drawing Control on their computers to use it.


## Obtaining support
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

To obtain support for issues that you encounter while integrating the Visio Drawing Control into your application, contact Microsoft Product Support Services. For contact information, see the documentation that comes with the Visio product.

