
# InvisibleApp.ActiveDocument Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns the active  **Document** object, which is the document shown in the active window. Read-only.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ActiveDocument**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **InvisibleApp** object.


### Return Value

Document


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

When no documents are open, there is no active document and the  **ActiveDocument** property returns the value **Nothing** and does not raise an exception.

If your code is in the Microsoft Visual Basic project of a Visio document, the  **ActiveDocument** property often, but not necessarily, returns a reference to the **ThisDocument** object, a class module in the Visual Basic project of every Microsoft Visio document. If the **ThisDocument** object is shown in the active window, the **ActiveDocument** object and the **ThisDocument** object refer to the same document. When the **ThisDocument** object is referenced from code in a project, it returns a reference to the project's **Document** object.

Whether you use the  **ActiveDocument** object or the **ThisDocument** object depends on the purpose of your code.

You can compare the result returned by the  **ActiveDocument** property with the value **Nothing** to determine if a document is active. If the value of the **Application.Documents.Count** property is greater than zero, at least one document is open and active.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows two safe ways to get an active document (if one exists). In each case, it prints the name of the active document in the  **Immediate** window. The code gets the active document without qualification from the Visio global object, which is automatically available to VBA code that is part of the VBA project of a Visio document.


```
 
Public Sub ActiveDocument_Example() 
 
 Dim vsoDocument As Document 
 
 'First method 
 If Documents.Count > 0 Then 
 Set vsoDocument = ActiveDocument 
 Debug.Print vsoDocument.Name 
 Else 
 Debug.Print "No active document." 
 End If 
 
 'Second method 
 If Not(ActiveDocument Is Nothing) Then 
 Set vsoDocument = ActiveDocument 
 Debug.Print vsoDocument.Name 
 Else 
 Debug.Print "No active document." 
 End If 
 
End Sub 

```

