
# Event.GetFilterCommands Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Returns an array of command ranges and a  **True** or **False** value indicating how to filter events for that command range.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **GetFilterCommands**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Event** object.


### Return Value

Long()


## Remarks

The event filters described in the array returned by the  **GetFilterCommands** method provide developers a way of ignoring specified events based on command ID. The array returned is that passed to the **SetFilterCommands** method for this **Event** object.

The array that is returned by the  **GetFilterCommands** method can be interpreted in the following manner:

The number of elements in the array is a multiple of 3, as follows:




- The first element contains the beginning command ID of the range (any member of  ** [VisUICmds](b956d178-eb19-5b64-189f-8bc774860758.md)**).
    
- The second element contains the end command ID of the range (any member of  **VisUICmds** ).
    
- The third element contains a  **True** or **False** value, which indicates whether you are listening to events for that command range ( **True** to listen to events; **False** to exclude events).
    


For an event to successfully pass through a command filter, it must satisfy the following criteria:




- It must have a valid command ID.
    
- If all filters are  **True**, the event must match at least one filter.
    
- If all filters are  **False**, the event must not match any filter.
    
- If the filters are a mixture of  **True** and **False**, the event must match at least one  **True** filter and not match any **False** filters.
    


If there are no  **True** ranges defined in the array, events are considered **True**.

For details about using command IDs to define event filters, see the  **SetFilterCommands** method.

