
# Master.MatchByName Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Determines how the application decides if a document master is already present when an instance of a master is dropped on the drawing page. It allows changes made to a document master to apply to new instances of the master, even if the instances are dragged from a stand-alone stencil file. Read/write.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **MatchByName**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Master** object.


### Return Value

Integer


## Remarks

Setting the  **MatchByName** property is equivalent to selecting or clearing the **Match master by name on drop** check box in the **Master Properties** dialog box (right-click the master, point to **Edit Master**, and then click  **Master Properties** on the shortcut menu).

Suppose you create an instance of a master from a stencil in a document (producing a local copy of the master in that document) and then make modifications to the document master (such as changing its fill color). If the  **MatchByName** property of the document master is **False**, dragging the original master from the stand-alone stencil into the drawing creates an instance that has the stand-alone master's attributes and produces a second document master.

If the  **MatchByName** property of the document master is **True**, dragging the original master from the stand-alone stencil into the drawing creates an instance that has the document master's attributes and doesn't produce a second document master.

