
# DrawingControl.AfterRemoveHiddenInformation Event (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Occurs when hidden information is removed from the document.


## Syntax

 Private Sub _expression__**AfterRemoveHiddenInformation**( **_ByVal doc As IVDOCUMENT_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns a  **DrawingControl** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|doc|Required| **[IVDOCUMENT]**|The document from which hidden information has been removed.|

## Remarks

The  **AfterRemoveHiddenInformation** event is one of a group of events for which the **EventInfo** property of the **Application** object contains extra information.

When the  **AfterRemoveHiddenInformation** event is fired, the **EventInfo** property returns a string that contains information about which items were removed from the document, consisting of the sum of applicable constant values from the ** [VisRemoveHiddenInfoItems](47a79817-67cb-b96a-e2ce-3503a11a4d54.md)** enumeration.

If you're using Microsoft Visual Basic or Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), the syntax in this topic describes a common, efficient way to handle events.

If you want to create your own  **Event** objects, use the **Add** or **AddAdvise** method. To create an **Event** object that runs an add-on, use the **Add** method as it applies to the **EventList** collection. To create an **Event** object that receives notification, use the **AddAdvise** method. To find an event code for the event you want to create, see [Event codes](de8f5c7a-421d-ebcf-22b6-4310a202ef64.md).

