
# Application Object (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Represents an instance of Visio. An external program typically creates or retrieves an  **Application** object before it can retrieve other Visio objects from that instance. Use the Microsoft Visual Basic **CreateObject** function or the **New** keyword to run a new instance, or use the **GetObject** function to retrieve an instance that is already running. You can also use the **CreateObject** function with the **InvisibleApp** object to run a new instance that is invisible. Set the value of the **InvisibleApp** object's **Visible** property to **True** to show it.


## Remarks

Use the  **Documents**,  **Windows**, and  **Addons** properties of an **Application** object to retrieve the **Document**,  **Window**, and  **Addon** collections of the instance.

Use the  **ActiveDocument**,  **ActivePage**, or  **ActiveWindow** property to retrieve the currently active **Document**,  **Page**, or  **Window** object.


 **Note**  Starting with Visio, the Microsoft Office Fluent user interface (UI) replaces the previous system of layered menus, toolbars, and task panes. VBA objects and members that you used to customize the user interface in previous versions of Visio are still available in Visio, but they function differently.

Use the  **BuiltInMenus**,  **BuiltInToolbars**,  **CustomMenus**,  **CustomToolbars**, or  **CommandBars** property to access the **Application** object's menus and toolbars.

 **ActiveDocument** is the default property of an **Application** object.


 **Note**  Code in the Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications project of a Visio document can use the Visio global object instead of a Visio  **Application** object to retrieve other objects.

If your Visual Studio solution includes the  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio** reference, this object maps to the following types:


-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio.ApplicationClass** (to access the **Application** object.)
    
-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio.ApplicationClass.Application** (to construct the **Application** object.)
    
-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio.EApplication_Event** (to access events on the **Application** object.
    
