
# DataRecordset.Name Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Gets or sets the display name of the data recordset. Read/write.


 **Note**  This Visio object or member is available only to licensed users of Visio Professional 2013.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **Name**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **DataRecordset** object.


### Return Value

String


## Remarks

The display name of a  ** [DataRecordset](272d5fbb-d8a7-1fe8-07a3-7d7f71b62936.md)** object is the name that you passed as the Name parameter to the ** [DataRecordsets.Add](9eb136ce-d543-75c3-3a72-cb23dfc8df78.md)**,  ** [DataRecordsets.AddFromConnectionFile ](7118bd4d-484b-dc22-e6f8-925376a5a67a.md)**, or  ** [DataRecordsets.AddFromXML ](b75d7ecc-98d2-ae9b-608f-a9ec2b736ea6.md)** method when you first created the data recordset; or the name that you subsequently assigned by setting this property. If you do not assign a name when you create a data recordset, Microsoft Visio assigns a default name, such as _Sheet1_, which would be the assigned name if you imported data from a Microsoft Excel workbook.

 If you specify (in the AddOptions parameter of one of the **Add** methods) that the **External Data** window be displayed in the Visio user interface, the display name appears on the tab of the **External Data** window that corresponds to the data recordset.

The  **Name** property value must be unique within a particular document—you cannot assign the same display name to more than one data recordset. If you attempt to assign the **Name** property value of an existing data recordset to the another data recordset in the same document, the assignment fails. If you add a new data recordset to a document by using the **Add** method, and if you pass the **Add** method the name of an existing data recordset as a display name, Visio appends a dash and a numeral (-1, for example) to the name to make it unique within the context of the document.

However, if you delete a data recordset, you can reuse the display name of the deleted data recordset for another data recordset in the same document. This is in contrast to the case with the  ** [DataRecordset.ID](31d3b05b-31f7-538e-cff7-b4e62cb29187.md)** property value. A particular ID is unique for the life of the document and you cannot reuse it, even if you delete the data recordset to which it was assigned.

