
# InvisibleApp.ContainerRelationshipDeleted Event (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Occurs when a container relationship is deleted from the document.


## Syntax

Private Sub  _expression__**ContainerRelationshipDeleted**( **_By Val ShapePair As RelatedShapePairEvent_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  ** [InvisibleApp](70a30571-2017-af8b-eaa1-bf93c758a46a.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ShapePair|Required| ** [RelatedShapePairEvent](8a59ae03-ed45-21e3-73ad-8fdbe4c53299.md)**|An object that represents the container shape-pair relationship.|

## Remarks

The  **RelatedShapePairEvent** object that this event returns contains two shapes: the container and the member, represented by the ** [RelatedShapePairEvent.FromShapeID](d4f8c389-0a47-40e1-e60b-147daf789738.md)** and the ** [RelatedShapePairEvent.ToShapeID](cdf61ad1-244e-5605-225b-4f919c923af8.md)** properties respectively. When Microsoft Visio deletes both shapes in the container relationship simultaneously, for example when both shapes are deleted from a drawing as part of a selection, the event does not fire.

If you are using Microsoft Visual Basic or Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), the syntax in this topic describes a common, efficient way to handle events.

If you want to create your own  ** [Event](f11fffff-2218-8cc4-f223-31d956d1252d.md)** objects, use the ** [EventList.Add](4deacea0-f4dc-bec6-31d0-bb9a060812f5.md)** or ** [EventList.AddAdvise](b58e086f-59d2-9e63-5df3-3001b58bb2c1.md)** method. To create an **Event** object that runs an add-on, use the **EventList.Add** method. To create an **Event** object that receives notification, use the **EventList.AddAdvise** method. To find an event code for the event you want to create, see [Event Codes](de8f5c7a-421d-ebcf-22b6-4310a202ef64.md).

