
# ContainerProperties.ReorderListMember Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Moves a shape or a set of shapes up or down in the list.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ReorderListMember**( **ObjectToReorder**,  **Position**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [ContainerProperties](b94f758f-58f7-f1ef-c03b-761e26c11017.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ObjectToReorder|Required| **[UNKNOWN]**|The shape or shapes to reorder in the container. Can be either  ** [Shape](da7a8872-4ebb-a607-e0ed-eebf68ff5630.md)** or ** [Selection](e5734140-6dbe-7de8-9695-1a22fb4ac628.md)** objects.|
|Position|Required| **Long**|The insertion position in the list, which is one-based.|

### Return Value

 **Nothing**


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If the container is not a list, Microsoft Visio returns an Invalid Source error. 

If the ObjectToReorder parameter does not contain top-level shapes on the page, if any shape inObjectToReorder is not a member of the list, or if the list is locked, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error.

To insert before the first item in the list, pass 1 for the Position parameter.

To insert after the final item in the list, set Position greater than or equal to the count of items.

If you pass an out-of-range value for Position, Visio uses the nearest valid position.

If you pass a non-contiguous selection of list members for ObjectToReorder, Visio makes the selection contiguous in the resulting reordered list, while maintaining relative position. For example, in a list ordered A,B,C,D, if you move B and D to position 1, the resutling list order is B,D,A,C.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example shows how to use the  **ReorderListMember** method to move a list member shape to the second position in the list.


```
vsoListShape.ContainerProperties.ReorderListMember vsoShape, 2
```

