
# Window.WindowState Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Gets or sets the state of a window. Read/write.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **WindowState**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Window** object.


### Return Value

Long


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **WindowState** property value can be a combination of the constants declared in the Visio type library in ** [VisWindowStates](54ef65ac-64ba-1338-39a0-862a92c0a1e3.md)**. 


 **Note**  The nFlags parameter to the  **Add** method for the **Windows** collection can be composed of the various bits of **VisWindowStates**.

If you specify conflicting bits, only one bit is used. For example, if you specify both  **visWSMaximized** and **visWSMinimized**, the window is maximized. 

The  **visWSVisible** flag is ignored when setting the state of a window with the **WindowState** property. It is used in calls to the **Add** method for the **Windows** collection. Use the **Visible** property of the window to show or hide it. The **visWSVisible** flag is available only when this property is read.

If your Visual Studio solution includes the  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio** reference, this property maps to the following types:


-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio.IVWindow.WindowState**
    

## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to minimize the active drawing window.


```
Public Sub WindowState_Example() 
  
    Dim vsoWindow As Visio.Window      
 
    'Get the active window. 
    Set vsoWindow = ActiveWindow  
 
    'Minimize the active window. 
    vsoWindow.WindowState = visWSMinimized 
 
End Sub 

```

