
# Page.DropConnected Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Creates a new  ** [Shape](da7a8872-4ebb-a607-e0ed-eebf68ff5630.md)** object on the page, places the new shape relative to the specified existing target shape, and adds a connector from the existing shape to the new shape. Returns the newly created shape.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **DropConnected**( **_ObjectToDrop_**,  **_TargetShape_**,  **_PlacementDir_**,  **_[Connector]_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Page](7a7f37ab-b448-eb70-b4f1-c185dfbd511e.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ObjectToDrop|Required| **[UNKNOWN]**|The shape to add to the page. Can be a  ** [Master](1a69e4d7-2b72-f712-d36c-c565af64c278.md)**,  ** [MasterShortcut](ada22e59-5bda-2dd7-33bc-1e26e95adc31.md)**,  **Shape**, or an  **IDataObject** object.|
|TargetShape|Required| **Shape**|The existing shape from which to align, space, and connect.|
|PlacementDir|Required| ** [VisAutoConnectDir](369eb3bd-fbf6-b657-8999-00c1540ab2f9.md)**|The direction from TargetShape in which to placeObjectToDrop.|
|Connector|Optional| **[UNKNOWN]**|The connector to use. Can be a  **Master**,  **MasterShortcut**,  **Shape**, or an  **IDataObject** object.|

### Return Value

 **Shape**


## Remarks

The  _ObjectToDrop_ parameter must be an object that references a two-dimensional (2-D) shape. If you pass a selection of shapes represented by an **IDataObject** object, Visio uses only the first of those shapes. If _ObjectToDrop_ is not a valid Visio object, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error. If _ObjectToDrop_ is not a shape that matches the context of the method, Visio returns an Invalid Source error.

The  _TargetShape_ parameter must be a 2-D top-level shape on the page. If _TargetShape_ is invalid, Visio returns an Invalid Source error.

The  _PlacementDir_ parameter value must be one of the **VisAutoConnectDir** constants. If you pass **visAutoConnectDirNone** for _PlacementDir_, Visio places the shape in a default location (0,0) and then connects it; the shape is not placed in relation to the target. 

The  _Connector_ parameter must be an object that references a one-dimensional (1-D) routable shape. If you pass a selection of shapes represented by an **IDataObject** object, Visio uses only the first of those shapes. If _Connector_ is not a valid Visio object, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error. If _Connector_ is not a shape that matches the context of the method, Visio returns an Invalid Source error.

