
# DataColumn Object (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Allows custom mapping of the properties of a column of a data recordset to Microsoft Visio ShapeSheet spreadsheet cells.


 **Note**  This Visio object or member is available only to licensed users of Visio Professional 2013.


## Remarks

The default property of the  **DataColumn** object is ** [Name](9b66e7b1-f3e7-af3a-8a64-59ab90fd6119.md)**, which returns the name of the data column in the associated data recordset.

The  ** [Visible](c540f37d-abbd-4831-e43b-653b228735a2.md)** property specifies whether the data column is visible in the **External Data** window.

Many of the properties of the  **DataColumn** object correspond closely to the columns of the Shape Data section of the ShapeSheet of shapes linked to data. For example, the ** [DisplayName](eddfba36-836b-97c4-2b34-a5a930d85d03.md)** property, which specifies the name that appears for the associated data column in the **External Data** window in the Visio user interface, corresponds to the Label column in the Shape Data section, which controls the label that appears for a particular Shape Data item in the Shape Data dialog box.

You can also set the  **DisplayName** property value in the **Column Settings** dialog box in the Visio user interface (right-click in the **External Data** window, and then click **Column Settings**) .

Note that the read-only  **Name** property specifies the programmatic name for this data column in the data recordset that contains the data column, but that you can specify the value of the read/write **DisplayName** property.




 **Note**  In Visio 2003 and prior versions, Shape Data were called Custom Properties. 

Use the  ** [GetProperty](8fa134e8-320d-546b-1de1-e19607a60c49.md)** method to get the value of the data column property you specify. Data column properties must be one of the enumerated values in **VisDataColumnProperties**, which is declared in the Visio type library.

Use the  ** [SetProperty](5851daa0-e2e0-7073-7e26-f0fc73586b9b.md)** method to set the value of the data column property you specify, from the members of **VisDataColumnProperties**. The  **SetProperty** topic contains a table that shows a matrix of allowable data column types and property settings. These settings correspond to those you can set in the **Types and Settings** dialog box for an individual column (select a column in the **Column Settings** dialog box, and then click **Data Type**).

