
# Documents.OpenEx Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Opens an existing Microsoft Visio file, using extra information passed in as an argument.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **OpenEx**( **_FileName_**,  **_Flags_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Documents** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|FileName|Required| **String**|The name of the file to open.|
|Flags|Required| **Integer**|Flags that indicate how to open the file.|

### Return Value

Document


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **OpenEx** method is identical to the **Open** method, except that it provides an extra argument in which the caller can specify how the document opens.

The Flags argument should be a combination of zero or more of the following values.



|** Constant**|** Value**|
|:-----|:-----|
| **visOpenCopy**| &amp;H1|
| **visOpenRO**| &amp;H2|
| **visOpenDocked**| &amp;H4|
| **visOpenDontList**| &amp;H8|
| **visOpenMinimized**| &amp;H10|
| **visOpenRW**| &amp;H20|
| **visOpenHidden**| &amp;H40|
| **visOpenMacrosDisabled**| &amp;H80|
| **visOpenNoWorkspace**|&amp;H100|
If  **visOpenDocked** is specified, the file appears in a docked rather than an MDI window, provided that the file is a stencil file and there is an active drawing window in which to put the docked stencil window.

If  **visOpenDontList** is specified, the name of the opened file does not appear in the list of recently opened documents in the **Recent Documents** list on the **Recent** tab (click the **File** tab, and then click **Recent**).

If  **visOpenMinimized** is specified, the file opens minimized—it is not active. This flag is not supported in versions of Visio earlier than 5.0b.

If  **visOpenMacrosDisabled** is specified, the file opens with Visual Basic macros disabled. This flag is not supported in versions earlier than Visio 2002.

If  **visOpenHidden** is specified, the file opens in a hidden window.

If  **visOpenNoWorkspace** is specified, the file opens with no workspace information.

If your Visual Studio solution includes the  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio** reference, this method maps to the following types:


-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio.IVDocuments.OpenEx(string, short)**
    

## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to use the  **OpenEx** method to open a copy of a stencil file in Visio.


```
 
Public Sub OpenEx_Example()  
 
    'Use the OpenEx method to open a copy of a stencil.  
    Documents.OpenEx "Basic_U.vss", visOpenDocked + visOpenCopy  
 
End Sub
```

