
# Event.GetFilterObjects Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Returns an array of object types and a  **True** or **False** value indicating how to filter events for that object.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **GetFilterObjects**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Event** object.


### Return Value

Long()


## Remarks

The event filters described in the array returned by the  **GetFilterObjects** method provide developers a way of ignoring specified events based on object type. The array returned is that passed to the **SetFilterObjects** method for this **Event** object.

The array that is returned by the  **GetFilterObjects** method can be interpreted in the following manner.

The number of elements in the array is a multiple of 2: 


- The first element contains an object type (one of  **visTypePage** , **visTypeGroup** , **visTypeShape** , **visTypeForeignObject** , **visTypeGuide** , or **visTypeDoc** ).
    
- The second element contains a  **True** or **False** value indicating whether you are listening to events for that object ( **True** to listen to an object's events; **False** to exclude an object's events).
    


For an event to successfully pass through an object event filter, it must satisfy the following criteria: 


- It must be a valid object type.
    
- If all filters are  **True**, the event must match at least one filter.
    
- If all filters are  **False**, the event must not match any filter.
    
- If the filters are a mixture of  **True** and **False**, the event must match at least one  **True** filter and not match any **False** filters.
    


If there are no  **True** ranges defined in the array, events are considered **True**.

For details about defining event filters using command IDs, see the  **SetFilterObjects** method.

