
# Shape.AddRows Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Adds the specified number of rows to a ShapeSheet section at a specified position.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **AddRows**( **_Section_**,  **_Row_**,  **_RowTag_**,  **_RowCount_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Shape** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Section|Required| **Integer**|The section in which to add the rows.|
|Row|Required| **Integer**|The position at which to add the rows.|
|RowTag|Required| **Integer**|The type of rows to add.|
|RowCount|Required| **Integer**|The number of rows to add.|

### Return Value

Integer


## Remarks

If the ShapeSheet section does not exist, the  **AddRows** method creates a section that has blank rows. New cells in new rows are initialized with default formulas, if applicable. Otherwise, a program must include statements to set the formulas for the new cells. An error occurs if the row cannot be added.

The Visio type library declares the constants for RowTag in ** [VisRowIndices](1fad2024-ce61-6b5d-b480-bef8067686b3.md)**.

The row constants declared by the Visio type library serve as base positions at which a section's rows begin. Add offsets to these constants to specify the first row and beyond, for example,  **visRowFirst**+0,  **visRowFirst**+1, and so on. To add rows at the end of a section, pass the constant  **visRowLast** for theRow argument. The value returned is the actual row index.

The RowTag argument specifies the type of rows to add. Pass **visTagDefault** (0) as theRowTag argument to generate a section's default row type. Explicit tags are useful when adding rows to Geometry, Connection Points, and Controls sections. See the **RowType** property for descriptions of valid row types for these sections. Passing an invalid row type generates an error.

If you try to add rows to a Character, Tabs, or Paragraph section, an error occurs.

The  **AddRows** method cannot add named rows. To add named rows, use the **AddNamedRow** method.

If you add rows to a section that has nameable rows (for example, the Connection Points or Controls section), the Row argument is ignored. By default, named rows are named in the order added, for example, Row_1, Row_2, and so forth. Naming order is influenced, however, by any existing rows or previously deleted rows.

