
# Cell.ResultForce Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Sets a cell's value, even if the cell's formula is protected with the GUARD function. Read/write.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **ResultForce**( **_UnitsNameOrCode_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Cell** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|UnitsNameOrCode|Required| **Variant**|The units to use when setting the cell's value.|

### Return Value

Double


## Remarks

Use the  **ResultForce** method to set a cell's value even if the cell's formula is protected with a GUARD function. If the string is invalid, an error is generated.

Setting the  **ResultForce** property is similar to setting a cell's **ResultFromIntForce** property. The difference is that the **ResultFromIntForce** property accepts an integer for the value of the cell, whereas the **ResultForce** property accepts a floating point number.

You can specify UnitsNameOrCode as an integer or a string value. For example, the following statements all setUnitsNameOrCode to inches.

 **Cell.ResultForce**( **visInches**) =  _newValue_

 **Cell.ResultForce**(65) =  _newValue_

 **Cell.ResultForce**("in") =  _newValue_ where "in" can also be any of the alternate strings representing inches, such as "inch", "in.", or "intCounter".

For a complete list of valid unit strings along with their corresponding Automation constants (integer values), see  [About Units of Measure](b6140312-b8e6-0cf2-9fe0-b14e800216bf.md).

Automation constants for representing units are declared by the Visio type library in member  ** [VisUnitCodes ](fce91c1b-d5c2-6522-2446-0b8f6cacbc84.md)**.

To specify internal units, pass a zero-length string (""). Internal units are inches for distance and radians for angles. To specify implicit units, you must use the  **Formula** property.

