
# DataRecordsets.Add Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection1)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection2)
 [Example](#sectionSection3)


Adds a  ** [DataRecordset](272d5fbb-d8a7-1fe8-07a3-7d7f71b62936.md)** object to the ** [DataRecordsets](edf6d0dc-2f16-eee0-fd4c-ec4c9409179e.md)** collection by connecting to and retrieving data from an OLEDB or ODBC data source.

 **Note**  This Visio object or member is available only to licensed users of Visio Professional 2013.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _expression_. **Add**( **_ConnectionIDOrString_**,  **_CommandString_**,  **_AddOptions_**,  **_Name_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **DataRecordsets** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ConnectionIDOrString|Required| **Variant**|The ID of an existing  ** [DataConnection](db21a645-d24d-253f-11ee-c75261d0896b.md)** object or the connection string to specify a new data-source connection.|
|CommandString|Required| **String**|Query string that specifies the database table or Excel worksheet and the fields (columns) within the table or worksheet that contain the data you want to query.|
|AddOptions|Required| **Long**|Options that determine properties of the data recordset to add. A combination of one or more enumerated value from  ** [VisDataRecordsetAddOptions](240726a5-48cb-3034-99cf-a42967a95daf.md)**. For more information, see Remarks.|
|Name|Optional| **String**|Assigns a display name to the  **DataRecordset** object being added.|

### Return Value

DataRecordset


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

You can determine an appropriate connection string to pass to the ConnectionIDOrString parameter by first using the  **Data Selector Wizard** in the Visio user interface (UI) to make the same connection, recording a macro while running the wizard, and then copying the connection string from the macro code.

An easy way to reuse an existing data connection is to pass the  **DataConnection** property value of an existing **DataRecordset** object for the ConnectionIDOrString parameter. Use the following syntax:




```
NewDataRecordset = DataRecordsets.Add(ExistingDataRecordset.DataConnection.ID, CommandString, AddOptions, Name)
```

For the ConnectionIDOrString parameter, if you pass the ID of an existing  **DataConnection** object that is currently being used by one or more other data recordsets, all the data recordsets become a _transacted group recordset_. All data recordsets in the group are refreshed whenever a data-refresh operation occurs.

The AddOptions parameter can be a combination of one or more of the following values from the  **VisDataRecordsetAddOptions** enumeration, which is declared in the Visio type library. The default is zero (0), which specifies that none of the options be set.



|**Constant**|**Value**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| **visDataRecordsetNoExternalDataUI**|1|Prevents data in the new data recordset from being displayed in the  **External Data** window.|
| **visDataRecordsetNoRefreshUI**|2|Prevents the data recordset from being displayed in the  **Refresh Data** dialog box.|
| **visDataRecordsetNoAdvConfig**|4|Prevents the data recordset from being displayed in the  **Configure Refresh** dialog box.|
| **visDataRecordsetDelayQuery**|8|Adds a data recordset but does not execute the CommandString query until the next time you call the  **Refresh** method.|
| **visDataRecordsetDontCopyLinks**|16|Adds a data recordset, but shape-data links are not copied to the Clipboard when shapes are copied or cut.|
 Once you assign these values, you cannot change them for the life of the **DataRecordset** object.

The Name parameter is an optional string that lets you assign the data recordset a display name. If you specify that the  **External Data** window be displayed in the Visio UI, the name you pass for this argument appears on the tab of the **External Data** window that corresponds to the data recordset added.

If the  **Add** method succeeds, it performs the following actions:


- Creates a  **DataRecordset** object and assigns it the name specified in the Name parameter. If you do not specify a name, Visio assigns the data recordset the name of the database table that is the source of the data.
    
- Associates a new or existing  **DataConnection** object with the **DataRecordset**object.
    
- Opens the  **External Data** window in the Visio UI, unless **visDataRecordsetNoExternalDataUI** is set.
    
Unless you pass  **visDataRecordsetDelayQuery** as part of the AddOptions parameter, the **Add** method also does the following:


- Executes the query string specified in the CommandString parameter and retreive the resulting data.
    
- Maps the data types of the columns of the data source to equivalent Visio data types, while filtering the results to remove data-source columns that cannot be linked to Visio shapes because they have no equivalent Visio data type. In particular, you cannot import binary data or esoteric data types such as  **UserDefined**,  **Chapter**, and  **IDispatch**.
    
-  Assigns a row ID to each row in the data recordset. For more information about row IDs, see ** [DataRecordset.GetDataRowIDs ](d76874eb-c25b-df65-5d00-64de288d086e.md)** topic.
    



 **Note**  The  **Add** method fails and returns an exception if it encounters network connection errors, network time outs, or database permission errors. If the **visDataRecordsetDelayQuery** option is set, under the same circumstances **Add** may successfully add a new data recordset, but refresh may fail.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how you might use the  **Add** method to connect a Visio drawing to data in ORGDATA.XLS, a Microsoft Office Excel workbook that is installed at C:\Program Files\Microsoft Office\OFFICE12\SAMPLES\1033\ when you install Visio at the default file path.

In this example, there is no existing data connection, so for the first parameter of the  **Add** method, we pass _strConnection_, the connection string. For the second parameter, we pass  _strCommand_, the command string, which directs Visio to select all columns from the worksheet we specify. For the third parameter of the  **Add** method, we pass zero to specify default behavior of the data recordset, and for the last parameter, we pass _"Org Data"_, the display name we want to assign to the data recordset.




```
Public Sub AddDataRecordset_Example() 
 
    Dim strConnection As String 
    Dim strCommand As String 
    Dim strOfficePath As String 
    Dim vsoDataRecordset As Visio.DataRecordset 
 
    strOfficePath = Visio.Application.Path     
    strConnection = "Provider=Microsoft.ACE.OLEDB.12.0;" _ 
                       &amp; "User ID=Admin;" _ 
                       &amp; "Data Source=" + strOfficePath + "SAMPLES\1033\ORGDATA.XLS;" _ 
                       &amp; "Mode=Read;" _ 
                       &amp; "Extended Properties=""HDR=YES;IMEX=1;MaxScanRows=0;Excel 12.0;"";" _ 
                       &amp; "Jet OLEDB:Engine Type=34;" 
 
    strCommand = "SELECT * FROM [Sheet1$]" 
 
    Set vsoDataRecordset = ActiveDocument.DataRecordsets.Add(strConnection, strCommand, 0, "Org Data") 
 
End Sub
```

