
# Visio VBA reference

 **Last modified:** July 29, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013_

This reference contains conceptual overviews, programming tasks, samples, and references to guide you in developing solutions based on Visio. It includes:


- An overview of using Automation with Visio.
    
- Details on Visio objects, properties, methods, enumerations, and events.
    
- Information about the Visio object model, the Visio type library, and extending the functionality of Visio with macros, add-ons, and COM (Component Object Model) add-ins.
    
- A sample Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro.
    
- Information about common Automation tasks, such as starting the Visual Basic Editor; viewing Visio object, property, method, enumeration, and event descriptions in the Object Browser; connecting to data sources, linking shapes to data, and displaying shape data graphically; and running macros and add-ons.
    
- Information about using the Visio Drawing Control to integrate Visio into third-party applications.
    
The documentation contains the following sections:

-  [Concepts](dd3742ff-6753-11b5-dbbc-cc6ff467146f.md): Provides important concepts for developing custom Visio solutions.
    
-  [Common tasks](f17c4b87-fdfc-74f1-ccdb-6d56056fb3d8.md): Describes common automation tasks for developing custom Visio solutions.
    
-  [Reference](166b707a-a5bf-42ae-7741-8ceb8a0ecfcc.md): Provides reference materials for the Visio object model.
    
For information about working with the cells, rows, and sections of a Visio ShapeSheet, either in the ShapeSheet window or by using Automation, see the  [Visio 2013 ShapeSheet Reference](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ca06502c-884c-c1ad-d2c9-31f2b2b30ae5%28Office.15%29.aspx).
