
# InvisibleApp.DialogFont Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns information about the fonts that Microsoft Visio uses in its dialog boxes. Read-only.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **DialogFont**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **InvisibleApp** object.


### Return Value

IFontDisp


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use this property to display your dialog boxes in the same font as the Visio dialog boxes.

COM (Component Object Model) provides a standard implementation of a font object with the  **IFontDisp** interface on top of the underlying system font support. The **IFontDisp** interface exposes a font object's properties and is implemented in the stdole type library as a **StdFont** object that can be created within Microsoft Visual Basic. The stdole type library is automatically referenced from all Visual Basic projects in Visio.

 **To get information about the StdFont object that supports the IFontDisp interface**




1. In the  **Code** group on the [Developer](1bdc55f5-8fc7-7257-03d5-c049eceb29ff.md) tab, click **Visual Basic**.
    
2. On the  **View** menu, click **Object Browser**.
    
3. In the  **Project/Library** list, click **stdole**.
    
4. Under  **Classes**, examine the class named  **StdFont**.
    


For details about the  **IFontDisp** interface, see the Microsoft Platform SDK on MSDN, the Microsoft Developer Network.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following sample code shows how to get a reference to a  **StdFont** object that conveys information about the application fonts, and how to print that information to the Immediate window.


```
 
Sub DialogFont_Example() 
 
Dim objStdFont As StdFont 
Set objStdFont = Application.DialogFont 
 
 With objStdFont 
 
 Debug.Print .Bold 
 Debug.Print .CharSet 
 Debug.Print .Italic 
 Debug.Print .Name 
 Debug.Print .Size 
 Debug.Print .Strikethrough 
 Debug.Print .Underline 
 Debug.Print .Weight 
 
 End With 
 
End Sub 

```

