
# ContainerProperties.InsertListMember Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Adds a shape or set of shapes to the list in the container.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **InsertListMember**( **_ObjectToInsert_**,  **_Position_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [ContainerProperties](b94f758f-58f7-f1ef-c03b-761e26c11017.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ObjectToInsert|Required| **[UNKNOWN]**|The object or selection to insert in the list. Can be a  ** [Shape](da7a8872-4ebb-a607-e0ed-eebf68ff5630.md)** or ** [Selection](e5734140-6dbe-7de8-9695-1a22fb4ac628.md)** object.|
|Position|Required| **Long**|The insertion point in the list, which is one-based.|

### Return Value

 **Nothing**


## Remarks

If the container is not a list, Microsoft Visio returns an Invalid Source error.

If the  _ObjectToInsert_ parameter contains any non-top-level shapes or, if the list is locked, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error. You cannot insert any of the following objects into a list:


- Another list.
    
- A callout.
    
- Routable connectors.
    
- Shapes whose PinX or PinY cells have the BOUND, GUARD, or SETATREF function applied.
    
- A member of another locked list.
    
Visio ignores shapes in  _ObjectToInsert_ that are already members of the list.

To insert before the first item in the list, pass 1 for the  _Position_ parameter. To insert at the end of the list, pass a _Position_ value equal to or greater than the value of the list count plus 1. If you pass an out-of-range position, Visio chooses the nearest valid position.

If  _ObjectToInsert_ does not match category requirements for lists, Visio returns an error.

Categories are user-defined strings that you can use to categorize shapes and, thereby, to restrict membership in a container. You can define categories in the User.msvShapeCategories cell in the ShapeSheet for a shape. You can define multiple categories for a shape by separating them with semicolons.

