
# Shape.AddNamedRow Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Adds a row that has the specified name to the specified ShapeSheet section.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **AddNamedRow**( **_Section_**,  **_RowName_**,  **_RowTag_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Shape** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Section|Required| **Integer**| The section in which the row is to be added.|
|RowName|Required| **String**|The name of the new row.|
|RowTag|Required| **Integer**| The type of row to be added.|

### Return Value

Integer


## Remarks

You can add named rows to the Actions ( **visSectionAction**), Controls ( **visSectionControls**), Shape Data ( **visSectionProp**), User-Defined Cells ( **visSectionUser**), Hyperlinks ( **visSectionHyperlink**), and Connection Points ( **visSectionConnectionPts**) ShapeSheet sections. You can access cells in the new rows by passing the row number returned by the  **AddNamedRow** method to the **CellsSRC** property. Alternatively, you can access cells in the new rows by using the row's name with the **Cells** property. For details about cell references and cells in named rows, see the Actions, Controls, User-defined Cells, Hyperlink, Shape Data, or Connection Points row topics in the Microsoft Visio ShapeSheet Reference.

An empty row name string ("") creates a row with a default name.

Passing a value of  **visTagDefault** (0) in theRowTag argument generates the default row type for the section. Explicit tags are useful when adding rows to a Connection Points section. See the **RowType** property for descriptions of valid row types for each section. Passing an invalid row type generates an error.

Adding a named row to a Connection Points section automatically converts any existing unnamed rows in the section into named rows, assigning them default names (Row_1, Row_2, and so on).

