
# Master.PatternFlags Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Determines whether a master behaves as a custom pattern. Read/write.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **PatternFlags**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Master** object.


### Return Value

Integer


## Remarks

Microsoft Visio allows a master to be used as a custom line pattern, line end, or fill pattern.

The  **PatternFlags** property determines whether you can use a master as a pattern (non-zero); whether it is a line, fill, or line end pattern; and which pattern mode to use when applying it to shapes.

If you can use the  **PatternFlags** property as a pattern (non-zero), the property can include a combination of the following bits.



|**Constant **|**Value **|**Description **|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| **visMasIsLinePat**|&amp;H1 |Line pattern |
| **visMasIsLineEnd**|&amp;H2 |Line end pattern |
| **visMasIsFillPat**|&amp;H4 |Fill pattern |
If  **visMasIsLinePat** is selected, the pattern mode should be one of the following values.



|**Constant **|**Value **|
|:-----|:-----|
| **visMasLPTileDeform**|&amp;H0 |
| **visMasLPTile**|&amp;H10 |
| **visMasLPStretch**|&amp;H20 |
| **visMasLPAnnotate**|&amp;H30 |
In addition,  **visMasLPScale** (&amp;H40) can optionally be included in the **PatternFlags** property value.

If  **visMasIsLineEnd** is selected, the pattern mode should be one of the following values.



|**Constant **|**Value **|
|:-----|:-----|
| **visMasLEDefault**|&amp;H0 |
| **visMasLEUpright**|&amp;H100 |
In addition,  **visMasLEScale** (&amp;H400) can optionally be included in the **PatternFlags** property value.

If  **visMasIsFillPat** is selected, the pattern mode should be one of the following values.



|**Constant **|**Value **|
|:-----|:-----|
| **visMasFPTile**|&amp;H0 |
| **visMasFPCenter**|&amp;H1000 |
| **visMasFPStretch**|&amp;H2000 |
In addition,  **visMasFPScale** (&amp;H4000) can optionally be included in the **PatternFlags** property value.

