
# Window.DockedStencils Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns the names of all stencils docked in a Microsoft Visio drawing window.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **DockedStencils**( **_NameArray()_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Window** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|NameArray()|Required| **String**|Out parameter. An array that receives the names of stencils docked in a window.|

### Return Value

Nothing


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **DockedStencils** method returns an array of strings—the names of the stencils shown in the docked stencil panes of a window. When the window is a drawing window, the number of docked stencil panes ( _n_) is equal to or greater than zero, and  _n_ is zero when the window isn't a drawing window.

If the  **DockedStencils** method succeeds,NameArray() returns a one-dimensional array of _n_ strings indexed from zero (0) to _n_ - 1. TheNameArray() paramter is an out parameter that is allocated by the **DockedStencils** method, ownership of which is passed back to the caller. The caller should eventually perform the **SafeArrayDestroy** procedure on the returned array. Note that the **SafeArrayDestroy** procedure has the side effect of freeing the strings referenced by the array's entries. The **DockedStencils** method fails ifNameArray() is null. (Microsoft Visual Basic and Visual Basic for Applications take care of destroying the array for you.)

If strStencilName is the string returned byNameArray(StencilName),  **Documents.Item**(strStencilName) succeeds and returns a  **Document** object representing the stencil.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications macro shows how to use the  **DockedStencils** method to get the document names of all the stencils docked in the active window. It also prints, in the **Immediate** window, the name of the active document and the lower and upper bounds of the array that holds the stencil names, and then it lists the stencil names and paths, also in the **Immediate** window.


```
 
Public Sub DockedStencils_Example() 
 
 Dim astrStencilNames() As String 
 ActiveWindow.DockedStencils astrStencilNames 
 
 Dim intLowerBound As Integer 
 Dim intUpperBound As Integer 
 Dim intIndex As Integer 
 
 intLowerBound = LBound(astrStencilNames) 
 intUpperBound = UBound(astrStencilNames) 
 Debug.Print "Active document: " ActiveWindow.Document; " Lower bound:"; intLowerBound; " Upper Bound:"; intUpperBound 
 
 intIndex = intLowerBound 
 While intIndex <= intUpperBound 
 Debug.Print astrStencilNames(intIndex) 
 intIndex = intIndex + 1 
 Wend 
 
End Sub 

```

