
# Application.WindowHandle32 Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns the 32-bit handle of a Microsoft Visio window. Read-only.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **WindowHandle32**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Return Value

Long


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **WindowHandle32** property of an **Application** object returns one of the following:




- The  **HWND** for the main Visio (frame) window (most common).
    
- The  **HWND** for the container application's main frame window if Visio is running in-place and active.
    
- The  **HWND** for the window returned by the **GetActiveWindow**() function if either frame window is disabled (for example, if a modal dialog box is running). For details about the  **GetActiveWindow** function, see the Microsoft Platform SDK on the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) Web site.
    


Use the  **WindowHandle32** property of the **Window** object to obtain the **HWND** for a window in the **Windows** collection of a Visio instance.

You can use the obtained  **HWND** in Windows API calls.


 **Note**  Calls to the  **WindowHandle** property (now hidden) are directed to the **WindowHandle32** property.

If your Visual Studio solution includes the  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio** reference, this property maps to the following types:


-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio.IVApplication.WindowHandle**
    
-  **Microsoft.Office.Interop.Visio.IVApplication.WindowHandle32**
    

## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to get the 32-bit handle of a window.


```
 
Public Sub WindowHandle32_Example()  
 
    Dim vsoWindow As Visio.Window  
    Dim lngWindowHandle32 As Long  
 
    'Get the active window. 
    Set vsoWindow = ActiveWindow  
 
    'Get the 32-bit handle of the active window.  
    lngWindowHandle32 = vsoWindow.WindowHandle32  
 
    'Verify that you got the handle.  
    Debug.Print "The active window handle is"; lngWindowHandle32  
 
End Sub 

```

