
# InvisibleApp.KeyPress Event (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Occurs when a keyboard key is pressed.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

Private Sub  _expression__**KeyPress**( **_ByVal KeyAscii As Long_**,  **_ByVal CancelDefault As Boolean_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **InvisibleApp** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|KeyAscii|Required| **Long**|The ASCII value of the key that was pressed. See Remarks for possible values.|
|CancelDefault|Required| **Boolean**| **False** if Microsoft Visio should process the message it receives from this event; otherwise, **True**. |

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Possible values for KeyAscii are the ASCII codes. To see a list of these codes, search for "ASCII character codes" on MSDN.

If you set CancelDefault to **True**, Visio does not process the message received when the mouse button is clicked.

Unlike some other Visio events,  **KeyPress** does not have the prefix "Query," but it is still a query event. That is, you can cancel processing the message sent by **KeyPress**, either by setting CancelDefault to **True**, or, if you are using the **VisEventProc** method to handle the event, by returning **True**. For more information, see the topics for the  **VisEventProc** method and for any of the query events (for example, the **QueryCancelSuspend** event) in this Automation Reference.


 **Note**  Pressing an accelererator key combination, for example, CTRL + C, does not fire the  **KeyPress** event.

If you are using Microsoft Visual Basic or Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), the syntax in this topic describes a common, efficient way to handle events.

If you want to create your own  **Event** objects, use the **Add** or **AddAdvise** method. To create an **Event** object that runs an add-on, use the **Add** method as it applies to the **EventList** collection. To create an **Event** object that receives notification, use the **AddAdvise** method. To find an event code for the event you want to create, see [Event codes](de8f5c7a-421d-ebcf-22b6-4310a202ef64.md).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This class module shows how to define a sink class called  **KeyboardListener** that listens for events fired by keyboard actions in the active window. It declares the object variable _vsoWindow_ by using the **WithEvents** keyword. The class module also contains event handlers for the **KeyDown**,  **KeyPress**, and  **KeyUp** events.

To run this example, insert a new class module in your VBA project, name it  **KeyboardListener**, and insert the following code in the module.




```
Dim WithEvents vsoWindow As Visio.Window 
 
Private Sub Class_Initialize() 
 
 Set vsoWindow = ActiveWindow 
 
End Sub 
 
Private Sub Class_Terminate() 
 
 Set vsoWindow = Nothing 
 
End Sub 
 
Private Sub vsoWindow_KeyDown(ByVal KeyCode As Long, ByVal KeyButtonState As Long, CancelDefault As Boolean) 
 
 Debug.Print "KeyCode is "; KeyCode 
 Debug.Print "KeyButtonState is" ; KeyButtonState 
 
End Sub 
 
Private Sub vsoWindow_KeyPress(ByVal KeyAscii As Long, CancelDefault As Boolean) 
 
 Debug.Print "KeyAscii value is "; KeyAscii 
 
End Sub 
 
Private Sub vsoWindow_KeyUp(ByVal KeyCode As Long, ByVal KeyButtonState As Long, CancelDefault As Boolean) 
 
 Debug.Print "KeyCode is "; KeyCode 
 Debug.Print "KeyButtonState is" ; KeyButtonState 
 
End Sub 
 

```

Then, insert the following code in the  **ThisDocument** project.




```
Dim myKeyboardListener As KeyboardListener 
 
Private Sub Document_DocumentSaved(ByVal doc As IVDocument) 
 
 Set myKeyboardListener = New KeyboardListener 
 
End Sub 
 
Private Sub Document_BeforeDocumentClose(ByVal doc As IVDocument) 
 
 Set myKeyboardListener = Nothing 
 
End Sub 
 

```

Save the document to initialize the class, and then press any key to fire a  **KeyPress** event. In the **Immediate** window, the handler prints the ASCII code of the key that was pressed to fire the event.

