
# DataConnection Object (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Abstracts communication between one or more  ** [DataRecordset](272d5fbb-d8a7-1fe8-07a3-7d7f71b62936.md)** objects and a non-XML data source.


 **Note**  This Visio object or member is available only to licensed users of Visio Professional 2013.


## Remarks

The default property of the  **DataConnection** object is **ID**.

When you add a new  **DataRecordset** object to the **DataRecordsets** collection (by using a method other than ** [DataRecordsets.AddFromXML](b75d7ecc-98d2-ae9b-608f-a9ec2b736ea6.md)**) and you do not specify an existing  **DataConnection** object (by passing the connection string associated with it to the ** [DataRecordsets.Add](9eb136ce-d543-75c3-3a72-cb23dfc8df78.md)** method), Visio creates a new **DataConnection** object.

The  **DataConnection** object exposes properties that make it possible to access data-source connection settings:




-  The ** [ConnectionString](a1a6105f-64ee-1e0c-3b54-9831aec06bf4.md)** property gets or sets the connection string used to access an existing **DataConnection** object or to create a new **DataConnection** object. Note that setting this property to a new value does not immediately change the connection—Visio re-evaluates this property only when the ** [DataRecordset.Refresh ](0a871f32-f24e-07c0-3cc6-a76f2a4ba2e2.md)** method is called.
    
- The  ** [Timeout](913b4e54-2cb6-bfbd-50fb-d369a37fb410.md)** property determines how long (in seconds) Visio should attempt to establish a data-source connection before terminating the connection attempt and generating an error. The default is 15 seconds.
    
- The  ** [FileName](fd8fb240-e9b8-05d9-fb59-8e9d412ca346.md)** property gets or sets the name of the Office Data Connection (ODC) file that contains the data-source connection and query information used to create a new connection and to refresh data from an existing connection.
    


Multiple  **DataRecordset** objects can share the same **DataConnection** object. When any of the data recordsets that share a data connection are refreshed, all are refreshed.

