
# Selection.IterationMode Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Determines whether a  **Selection** object reports subselected shapes and groups in which a shape is selected. Read/write.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **IterationMode**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Selection** object.


### Return Value

Long


## Remarks

The items in a  **Selection** object are a subset of the descendants of the **Selection** object's containing shape.




- A top-level shape in a  **Selection** object is an immediate child of the selection's containing shape.
    
- A subselected shape in a  **Selection** object is not an immediate child of the selection's containing shape.
    
- A superselected shape in a  **Selection** object has at least one immediate child that is subselected.
    


If a shape is subselected, each of its ancestors—except the containing shape itself—is superselected.

The value of the  **IterationMode** property is a combination of the following values.



|**Constant **|**Value **|**Description **|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| **visSelModeSkipSuper**|&amp;H0100 |Selection does not report superselected shapes. |
| **visSelModeOnlySuper**|&amp;H0200 |Selection only reports superselected shapes. |
| **visSelModeSkipSub**|&amp;H0400 |Selection does not report subselected shapes. |
| **visSelModeOnlySub**|&amp;H0800 |Selection only reports subselected shapes. |
When a  **Selection** object is created, its initial iteration mode is **visSelModeSkipSub** + **visSelModeSkipSuper**. It reports neither subselected nor superselected shapes and behaves identically to  **Selection** objects in versions of Microsoft Visio prior to Visio 2000.

You can determine whether an individual item in a  **Selection** object is a subselected or superselected item by using the **ItemStatus** property.

