
# ApplicationSettings.StencilCharactersPerLine Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


For shapes on stencils, determines approximately how many characters of each shape's name appear on each line before the text wraps to the next line. Read/write.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **StencilCharactersPerLine**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **ApplicationSettings** object.


### Return Value

Long


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Setting the  **StencilCharactersPerLine** property is equivalent to setting the **Characters per line** option under **Stencil spacing** on the **Advanced** tab in the **Visio Options** dialog box (click the **File** tab, and then click **Options**).

The minimum value for  **StencilCharactersPerLine** is 5 characters per line and the maximum is 20. By default, Visio displays 12 characters per line.

This property affects the overall spacing of shapes on a stencil, which affects how many shapes the user can see without scrolling.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to use the  **StencilCharactersPerLine** property to print the current number of stencil characters per line in the Immediate window. It also shows how to get an **ApplicationSettings** object from the Visio **Application** object.


```
Public Sub StencilCharactersPerLine_Example() 
 
    Dim vsoApplicationSettings As Visio.ApplicationSettings 
    Dim lngCharsPerLine As Long 
 
    Set vsoApplicationSettings = Visio.Application.Settings 
    lngCharsPerLine = vsoApplicationSettings.StencilCharactersPerLine 
 
    Debug.Print lngCharsPerLine 
 
End Sub
```

