
# Page.DrawNURBS Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

Creates a new shape whose path consists of a single NURBS (nonuniform rational B-spline) segment.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **DrawNURBS**( **_degree_**,  **_Flags_**,  **_xyArray()_**,  **_knots()_**,  **_weights_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Page** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|degree|Required| **Integer**|The spline's degree; an integer between 1 and 25.|
|Flags|Required| **Integer**|Flags that influence how the shape is drawn.|
|xyArray()|Required| **Double**|An array of alternating x andy values that define the control points coordinates; use internal drawing units (inches).|
|knots()|Required| **Double**|An array of knots.|
|weights|Optional| **Variant**|An array of weights.|

### Return Value

Shape


## Remarks

The  **DrawNURBS** method creates a new shape whose path consists of a single NURBS segment as specified by the arguments.

The control points should be in internal drawing units (inches) with respect to the coordinate space of the page, master, or group in which the new shape is being created. The xyArray, knots, and weights arrays should be of type SAFEARRAY of 8-byte floating point values passed by reference (VT_R8|VT_ARRAY|VT_BYREF). This is how Microsoft Visual Basic passes arrays to Automation objects.

The knots argument is unit-less. The sequence ofknots should be non-decreasing. In other words,knots( _i_ + 1) <knots( _i_) is not acceptable. knots( _i_ + 1) =knots( _i_) is permitted, and then the value is repeated, but the following restrictions apply:




- The first knot may not be repeated more than degree + 1 times.
    
- The last knot may not be repeated.
    
- Any knot between the first and last may not be repeated more than degree times.
    
- If the first knot is repeated less than degree + 1 times, the spline is _periodic_.
    
- The list of weights is optional. Its absence signals that the spline is  _non-rational_. Weights are unit-less.
    


The following rules apply to the sizes of the lists. For a spline with n control points:




- If the spline is periodic,  _n_ > 2. Otherwise, _n_ >degree.
    
- The size of xyArray is 2 _n_.
    
- The size of the weights array is _n_ (if present).
    
- The size of the knots array is _n_ + 1.
    


The conventional non-periodic spline requires  _n_ +degree + 1knots, but the application implies the repeated knots at the end. For example, thedegree 2 knot list (0,0,0,2,5,8) is interpreted in the application as the conventional knot sequence (0,0,0,2,5,8,8,8).

The Flags parameter is a bitmask that specifies options for drawing the new shape. Its value should be either zero (0) or **visSpline1D** (8). IfFlags is **visSpline1D** and if the first and last points inxyArray don't coincide, the **DrawNURBS** method produces a shape with one-dimensional (1-D) behavior; otherwise, it produces a shape with two-dimensional (2-D) behavior.

If the first and last points in xyArray do coincide, the **DrawNURBS** method produces a filled shape.

