
# Page.DropIntoList Method (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Drops the specified object into the specified list at the specified position. Returns the newly dropped shape.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **DropIntoList**( **_ObjectToDrop_**,  **_TargetList_**,  **_lPosition_**)

 _expression_An expression that returns a  ** [Page](7a7f37ab-b448-eb70-b4f1-c185dfbd511e.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|ObjectToDrop|Required| **IUnknown**|The source of the shape to drop into the list. Can be a  ** [Master](1a69e4d7-2b72-f712-d36c-c565af64c278.md)**,  ** [Selection](e5734140-6dbe-7de8-9695-1a22fb4ac628.md)**,  ** [Shape](da7a8872-4ebb-a607-e0ed-eebf68ff5630.md)**, or  **IDataObject** object. See Remarks for more information.|
|TargetList|Required| **Shape**|The list into which to drop ObjectToDrop. |
|lPosition|Required| **Long**|The position in the 1-based list to add the shape.|

### Return Value

 **Shape**


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If  _ObjectToDrop_ is a **Selection** object, the selection can contain only a single shape.

If  _ObjectToDrop_ is an **IDataObject**, it must be associated with a local Microsoft Visio object that is in the same instance as the page on which it is being dropped. 

Visio returns an Invalid Target error if  _ObjectToDrop_ does not match the category requirements of the list or the container. Shapes can be assigned categories, and containers can have required and excluded categories.

Categories are user-defined strings that you can use to categorize shapes and, thereby, to restrict membership in a container. You can define categories in the User.msvShapeCategories cell in the ShapeSheet for a shape. You can define multiple categories for a shape by separating the categories with semicolons. 

If  _ObjectToDrop_ is not a Microsoft Visio object, or if it does not contain top-level shapes on the page, Microsoft Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error.

If the  ** [ContainerProperties.LockMembership](b82455fc-f3cb-66de-c022-ac6f63f5b4b2.md)** property of the list is **True**, Visio returns a Disabled error.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example shows how to use the  **DropIntoList** method to add a new shape to an existing list on the active page, in the first position in the list.


```
Application.ActivePage.DropIntoList vsoMaster, vsoListShape, 1
```

