
# Application.VBAEnabled Property (Visio)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Visio 2013 Preview_

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Specifies whether Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) is enabled in the application. Read-only.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **VBAEnabled**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Return Value

 **Boolean**


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If a document that contains a VBA project is opened with VBA enabled, and then VBA becomes disabled while the document is open:


- Microsoft Visio no longer executes macros in that document, but the macro names still appear in the  **Macros** dialog box (press Alt+F8).
    
- Visio continues firing events to the project.
    
If a document that contains a VBA project is opened with VBA disabled, and then VBA becomes enabled while the document is open:


- Visio does not fire events to the project, even though VBA has become enabled.
    
- Macros remain disabled.
    
The  **VBAEnabled** property is set to **True** if the **Trust access to the VBA project object model** check box is selected under **Developer Macro Settings** on the **Macro Settings** page of the **Trust Center** (click the **File** tab, click **Options**, click  **Trust Center**, and then click  **Trust Center Settings**). If it is not selected, the property reports  **False**.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

You may have a document that requires VBA to be enabled to run properly, for example, code in a document's  **DocumentOpened** event handler. The following code can be run from an add-on to verify whether VBA is enabled in the application before a document that depends on VBA is opened.

Before running this procedure, supply a valid document file name for the variable  _filename_.




```
Public Sub VBAEnabled_Example() 
 
    Dim vsoDocument As Visio.Document 
    Dim blsStatus As Boolean 
 
    blsStatus = Application.VBAEnabled  
    If Not blsStatus Then 
 
        MsgBox "For this process to continue, VBA must be enabled." &amp; _ 
        " Please enable VBA and start over." 
 
    Else 
 
        Set vsoDocument = Documents.Open("filename") 
 
    End if 
 
End Sub 

```

