
# ContainerProperties.ReorderListMember Method (Visio)

Moves a shape or a set of shapes up or down in the list.


## Syntax

 _expression_ . **ReorderListMember**( **_ObjectToReorder_** , **_Position_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **[ContainerProperties](b94f758f-58f7-f1ef-c03b-761e26c11017.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _ObjectToReorder_|Required| **[UNKNOWN]**|The shape or shapes to reorder in the container. Can be either  **[Shape](da7a8872-4ebb-a607-e0ed-eebf68ff5630.md)** or **[Selection](e5734140-6dbe-7de8-9695-1a22fb4ac628.md)** objects.|
| _Position_|Required| **Long**|The insertion position in the list, which is one-based.|

### Return Value

 **Nothing**


## Remarks

If the container is not a list, Microsoft Visio returns an Invalid Source error. 

If the  _ObjectToReorder_ parameter does not contain top-level shapes on the page, if any shape in _ObjectToReorder_ is not a member of the list, or if the list is locked, Visio returns an Invalid Parameter error.

To insert before the first item in the list, pass 1 for the  _Position_ parameter.

To insert after the final item in the list, set  _Position_ greater than or equal to the count of items.

If you pass an out-of-range value for  _Position_, Visio uses the nearest valid position.

If you pass a non-contiguous selection of list members for  _ObjectToReorder_, Visio makes the selection contiguous in the resulting reordered list, while maintaining relative position. For example, in a list ordered A,B,C,D, if you move B and D to position 1, the resutling list order is B,D,A,C.


## Example

The following Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) example shows how to use the  **ReorderListMember** method to move a list member shape to the second position in the list.


```
vsoListShape.ContainerProperties.ReorderListMember vsoShape, 2
```

