
# Visio VBA reference

This reference contains conceptual overviews, programming tasks, samples, and references to guide you in developing solutions based on Visio.

 >**Note**  Interested in developing solutions that extend the Office experience across [multiple platforms](https://dev.office.com/add-in-availability)? Check out the new [Office Add-ins model](http://dev.office.com/docs/add-ins/overview/office-add-ins).

It includes:


- An overview of using Automation with Visio.
    
- Details on Visio objects, properties, methods, enumerations, and events.
    
- Information about the Visio object model, the Visio type library, and extending the functionality of Visio with macros, add-ons, and COM (Component Object Model) add-ins.
    
- A sample Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro.
    
- Information about common Automation tasks, such as starting the Visual Basic Editor; viewing Visio object, property, method, enumeration, and event descriptions in the Object Browser; connecting to data sources, linking shapes to data, and displaying shape data graphically; and running macros and add-ons.
    
- Information about using the Visio Drawing Control to integrate Visio into third-party applications.
    

The documentation contains the following sections:

- [Getting Started with VBA in Office](https://github.com/OfficeDev/VBA-content/blob/master/VBA/Library-Reference-VBA/articles/7208a87a-a567-41d9-af5b-0df3884c58d9.md): Provides insight into how VBA programming can help to customize Office solutions.
    
- [What's New for VBA in Office 2016](https://github.com/OfficeDev/VBA-content/blob/master/VBA/Library-Reference-VBA/articles/c0294abb-bc0e-495d-b387-4398378dd3ad.md): Lists the new VBA language elements for Office 2016.
    
- **Concepts**: Provides important concepts for developing custom Visio solutions.
    
- **How-to Topics**: Provides step-by-step instructions for developing custom Visio solutions.
    
- **Reference**: Provides reference materials for the Visio object model.
    
