
# Customization File SQL Section

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

The  **sql** section can contain a new SQL string that replaces the client command string. If there is no SQL string in the section, the section will be ignored.

The new SQL string may be  _parameterized_. That is, parameters in the **sql** section SQL string (designated by the '?' character) can be replaced by corresponding arguments in an _identifier_ in the client command string (designated by a comma-delimited list in parentheses). The identifier and argument list behave like a function call.
For example, assume the client command string is  `"CustomerByID(4)"`, the SQL section header is  `[SQL CustomerByID]`, and the new SQL section string is  `"SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE CustomerID = ?".` The Handler will generate , the SQL section header is `[SQL CustomerByID]`, and the new SQL section string is  `"SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE CustomerID = ?".` The Handler will generate `"SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE CustomerID = 4"` and use that string to query the data source.
If the new SQL statement is the null string (""), then the section is ignored.
If the new SQL statement string is not valid, then the execution of the statement will fail. The client parameter is effectively ignored. You can do this intentionally to "turn off" all client SQL commands by specifying:



```text
[SQL default] 
SQL = " " 

```


## Syntax

A replacement SQL string entry is of the form:

 **SQL= _sqlString_**



|**Part**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**SQL**|A literal string that indicates this is an SQL section entry.|
|** _sqlString_**|An SQL string that replaces the client string.|
