
# OriginalValue Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Return Value](#sectionSection1)
[Remarks](#sectionSection2)
[Record](#sectionSection3)



Indicates the value of a [Field](1dbd535e-48ad-a5c8-a1b2-6776c1e3e19d.md) that existed in the record before any changes were made.

## Return Value
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Returns a  **Variant** value that represents the value of a field prior to any change.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Use the  **OriginalValue** property to return the original field value for a field from the current record.

In  _immediate update mode_ (in which the provider writes changes to the underlying data source after you call the[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) method), the **OriginalValue** property returns the field value that existed prior to any changes (that is, since the last **Update** method call). This is the same value that the[CancelUpdate](2bd4d168-ba52-7786-5046-44febeda88e1.md) method uses to replace the[Value](ff21d122-98e3-2b48-d92f-e696b8079fc5.md) property.

In  _batch update mode_ (in which the provider caches multiple changes and writes them to the underlying data source only when you call the[UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md) method), the **OriginalValue** property returns the field value that existed prior to any changes (that is, since the last **UpdateBatch** method call). This is the same value that the[CancelBatch](be7bf073-ed0b-e24c-7ec0-b7379236782a.md) method uses to replace the **Value** property. When you use this property with the[UnderlyingValue](f84f4c1c-2bd4-a725-3575-ed063ead13c8.md) property, you can resolve conflicts that arise from batch updates.


## Record
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

For [Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) objects, the **OriginalValue** property will be empty for fields added before[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) is called.

