
# OpenFunction Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

In an Access project, you can use the  **OpenFunction** action to open a user-defined function in Datasheet view, inline function Design view, SQL Text Editor view (for a scalar or table user-defined function), or Print Preview. This action runs the user-defined function when opened in Datasheet view. You can also select the data entry mode for the user-defined function and restrict the records that the user-defined function displays.


 **Note**  This action will not be allowed if the database is not trusted. For more information about enabling macros, see the links in the  **See Also** section of this article.


## Setting

The  **OpenFunction** action has the following arguments.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Function Name**|The name of the user-defined function to open. The  **Function Name** box in the **Action Arguments** section of the Macro Builder pane shows all user-defined functions in the current database. This is a required argument.If you run a macro containing the **Function** action in a library database, Microsoft Access first looks for the function with this name in the library database, and then in the current database.|
|**View**|The view in which the user-defined function will open. Click  **Datasheet**,  **Design**,  **Print Preview**,  **PivotTable**, or  **PivotChart** in the **View** box. The default is **Datasheet**.|
|**Data Mode**|The data entry mode for the user-defined function. This applies only to user-defined functions opened in Datasheet view. Click  **Add** (the user can add new records but can't view or edit existing records), **Edit** (the user can view or edit existing records and add new records), or **Read Only** (the user can only view records). The default is **Edit**.|

## Remarks

This action is similar to double-clicking a user-defined function in the Navigation Pane, or right-clicking the function in the Navigation Pane and selecting a view.

Switching to Design view while the user-defined function is open removes the  **Data Mode** argument setting for the user-defined function. This setting is not in effect, even if the user returns to Datasheet view.

 **Tips**


- You can select a user-defined function in the Navigation Pane and drag it to a macro action row. This automatically creates an  **OpenFunction** action that opens the user-defined function in Datasheet view.
    
- If you don't want to display the system messages that normally appear when a user-defined function is run (indicating it is a user-defined function and showing how many records will be affected), you can use the  **SetWarning** action to suppress the display of these messages.
    
To run the  **OpenFunction** action in a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module, use the **OpenFunction** method of the **DoCmd** object.

