
# SortColumn Property (RDS)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Indicates by which column to sort the records.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _DataControl_. **SortColumn** = _String_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _DataControl_
    
- An object variable that represents an [RDS.DataControl](ac430669-7628-696c-c036-b5d35405d788.md) object.
    
-  _String_
    
- A  **String** value that represents the name or alias of the column by which to sort the records.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

The  **SortColumn**,[SortDirection](33de0dce-f371-6a54-d179-0627939f5b14.md), [FilterValue](66dc14cd-cc14-78cb-cb05-91eefb17ea47.md), [FilterCriterion](51e6cb64-a404-114e-8e1a-0744cceeec3e.md), and [FilterColumn](fb5d9f23-b62a-8131-d6ff-8b7ed8bb825c.md) properties provide sorting and filtering functionality on the client-side cache. The sorting functionality orders records by values from one column. The filtering functionality displays a subset of records based on find criteria, while the full[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) is maintained in the cache. The[Reset](169ebd1e-6071-613e-c065-3af060167456.md) method will execute the criteria and replace the current **Recordset** with an updatable **Recordset**.

To sort on a  **Recordset**, you must first save any pending changes. If you are using the **RDS.DataControl**, you can use the[SubmitChanges](ecaea12d-7e1a-095d-17e7-d631ef230b90.md) method. For example, if your **RDS.DataControl** is named ADC1, your code would be `ADC1.SubmitChanges`. If you are using an ADO  **Recordset**, you can use its[UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md) method. Using **UpdateBatch** is the recommended method for **Recordset** objects created with the[CreateRecordset](19524509-31da-9af1-4062-cd3c59b51278.md) method. For example, your code could be `myRS.UpdateBatch` or . If you are using an ADO **Recordset**, you can use its[UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md) method. Using **UpdateBatch** is the recommended method for **Recordset** objects created with the[CreateRecordset](19524509-31da-9af1-4062-cd3c59b51278.md) method. For example, your code could be `myRS.UpdateBatch` or `ADC1.Recordset.UpdateBatch`.

