
# Chapter 14: ADO MD Fundamentals

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Microsoft ActiveX Data Objects (Multidimensional) (ADO MD) provides easy access to multidimensional data from languages such as Microsoft Visual Basic, Microsoft Visual C++, and Microsoft Visual J++. ADO MD extends Microsoft ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) to include objects specific to multidimensional data, such as the [CubeDef](199235b7-3d98-f655-27bc-94f66e994e06.md) and[Cellset](28d4b3b9-f907-9ec0-00e1-9666c887cdf0.md) objects. With ADO MD you can browse multidimensional schema, query a cube, and retrieve the results.

Like ADO, ADO MD uses an underlying OLE DB provider to gain access to data. To work with ADO MD, the provider must be a multidimensional data provider (MDP) as defined by the OLE DB for OLAP specification. MDPs present data in multidimensional views as opposed to tabular data providers (TDPs) that present data in tabular views. Refer to the documentation for your OLAP OLE DB provider for more detailed information on the specific syntax and behaviors supported by your provider.
This document assumes a working knowledge of the Visual Basic programming language and a general knowledge of ADO and OLAP. For more information, see the [ADO Programmer's Guide](b68a982e-17b6-7dd6-ca9d-3a5960d815da.md) and the OLE DB for OLAP Programmer's Reference. For more overview information about ADO MD, see the following topics:

- [Overview of Multidimensional Schemas and Data](a963e993-b7bf-eeb4-ecd5-d6fe43cf4bb5.md)
    
- [Working with Multidimensional Data](a0c9ac73-04da-cfdd-8787-15c8a53ff819.md)
    
- [Using ADO with ADO MD](93d1d270-b8d0-4489-d441-11a61887291c.md)
    
- [Programming with ADO MD](af075699-1922-c094-f901-42a56020dbec.md)
    
