
# DBEngine.DefaultPassword Property (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 30, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Sets the password used to create the default  **Workspace** when it is initialized. Read/write **String**.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **DefaultPassword**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **DBEngine** object.


## Remarks

The setting for  **DefaultPassword** is a String data type that can be up to 20 characters long. It can contain any character except ASCII 0.


 **Note**  Use strong passwords that combine upper- and lowercase letters, numbers, and symbols. Weak passwords don't mix these elements. Strong password: Y6dh!et5. Weak password: House27. Use a strong password that you can remember so that you don't have to write it down.

By default, the  **DefaultUser** property is set to "admin" and the **DefaultPassword** property is set to a zero-length string ("").

Typically, you use the  **CreateWorkspace** method to create a **Workspace** object with a given user name and password. However, for backward compatibility with earlier versions and for convenience when you don't implement a secured database, the Microsoft Access database engine automatically creates a default **Workspace** object when needed if one isn't already open. In this case, the **DefaultUser** and **DefaultPassword** property values define the user and password for the default **Workspace** object.

For this property to take effect, you should set it before calling any DAO methods.

