
# Recordset.AddNew Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)


Creates a new record for an updatable  **[Recordset](9774232c-e6da-175b-fc7f-ed2ab7908fa0.md)** object.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **AddNew**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Use the  **AddNew** method to create and add a new record in the **Recordset** object named by recordset. This method sets the fields to default values, and if no default values are specified, it sets the fields to Null (the default values specified for a table-type **Recordset** ).

After you modify the new record, use the  **[Update](aad4171a-da95-ed72-86b3-714615ea0ac8.md)** method to save the changes and add the record to the **Recordset**. No changes occur in the database until you use the **Update** method.




 **Note**  If you issue an  **AddNew** and then perform any operation that moves to another record, but without using **Update**, your changes are lost without warning. In addition, if you close the **Recordset** or end the procedure that declares the **Recordset** or its **[Database](6cf2ddf8-3957-a15e-5eeb-85f81c1e415e.md)** object, the new record is discarded without warning.




 **Note**  When you use  **AddNew** in a Microsoft Access workspace and the database engine has to create a new page to hold the current record, page locking is pessimistic. If the new record fits in an existing page, page locking is optimistic.

If you haven't moved to the last record of your  **Recordset**, records added to base tables by other processes may be included if they are positioned beyond the current record. If you add a record to your own **Recordset**, however, the record is visible in the **Recordset** and included in the underlying table where it becomes visible to any new **Recordset** objects.

The position of the new record depends on the type of  **Recordset**:


- In a dynaset-type  **Recordset** object, records are inserted at the end of the **Recordset**, regardless of any sorting or ordering rules that were in effect when the **Recordset** was opened.
    
- In a table-type  **Recordset** object whose **[Index](54626de0-eb51-31f2-bf24-e29cbfbbaa02.md)** property has been set, records are returned in their proper place in the sort order. If you haven't set the **Index** property, new records are returned at the end of the **Recordset**.
    


The record that was current before you used  **AddNew** remains current. If you want to make the new record current, you can set the **[Bookmark](c4b1c2d9-668e-e365-544c-efb4ae4efcc9.md)** property to the bookmark identified by the **[LastModified](7386f25b-bde1-a446-e980-640696a3bfec.md)** property setting.




 **Note**  To add, edit, or delete a record, there must be a unique index on the record in the underlying data source. If not, a "Permission denied" error will occur on the  **AddNew**, **Delete**, or **Edit** method call in a Microsoft Access workspace.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example uses the  **AddNew** method to create a new record with the specified name. The AddName function is required for this procedure to run.


```vb
Sub AddNewX() 
 
 Dim dbsNorthwind As Database 
 Dim rstEmployees As Recordset 
 Dim strFirstName As String 
 Dim strLastName As String 
 
 Set dbsNorthwind = OpenDatabase("Northwind.mdb") 
 Set rstEmployees = _ 
 dbsNorthwind.OpenRecordset("Employees", dbOpenDynaset) 
 
 ' Get data from the user. 
 strFirstName = Trim(InputBox( _ 
 "Enter first name:")) 
 strLastName = Trim(InputBox( _ 
 "Enter last name:")) 
 
 ' Proceed only if the user actually entered something 
 ' for both the first and last names. 
 If strFirstName <> "" and strLastName <> "" Then 
 
 ' Call the function that adds the record. 
 AddName rstEmployees, strFirstName, strLastName 
 
 ' Show the newly added data. 
 With rstEmployees 
 Debug.Print "New record: " &; !FirstName &; _ 
 " " &; !LastName 
 ' Delete new record because this is a demonstration. 
 .Delete 
 End With 
 
 Else 
 Debug.Print _ 
 "You must input a string for first and last name!" 
 End If 
 
 rstEmployees.Close 
 dbsNorthwind.Close 
 
End Sub 
 
Function AddName(rstTemp As Recordset, _ 
 strFirst As String, strLast As String) 
 
 ' Adds a new record to a Recordset using the data passed 
 ' by the calling procedure. The new record is then made 
 ' the current record. 
 With rstTemp 
 .AddNew 
 !FirstName = strFirst 
 !LastName = strLast 
 .Update 
 .Bookmark = .LastModified 
 End With 
 
End Function
```

