
# Open Method (ADO Connection)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Opens a connection to a data source.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _connection_. **Open** _ConnectionString_, _UserID_, _Password_, _Options_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _ConnectionString_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains connection information. See the[ConnectionString](c67a7daf-258f-d99d-6475-a4aa98d1e99d.md) property for details on valid settings.
    
-  _UserID_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains a user name to use when establishing the connection.
    
-  _Password_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains a password to use when establishing the connection.
    
-  _Options_
    
- Optional. A [ConnectOptionEnum](803d3fd6-93cf-85ea-eeb0-ca1bc965577d.md) value that determines whether this method should return after (synchronously) or before (asynchronously) the connection is established.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

Using the  **Open** method on a[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object establishes the physical connection to a data source. After this method successfully completes, the connection is live and you can issue commands against it and process the results.

Use the optional  _ConnectionString_ argument to specify either a connection string containing a series of _argument_ _= value_ statements separated by semicolons, or a file or directory resource identified with a URL. The **ConnectionString** property automatically inherits the value used for the _ConnectionString_ argument. Therefore, you can either set the **ConnectionString** property of the **Connection** object before opening it, or use the _ConnectionString_ argument to set or override the current connection parameters during the **Open** method call.

If you pass user and password information both in the  _ConnectionString_ argument and in the optional _UserID_ and _Password_ arguments, the _UserID_ and _Password_ arguments will override the values specified in _ConnectionString_.

When you have concluded your operations over an open  **Connection**, use the[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md) method to free any associated system resources. Closing an object does not remove it from memory; you can change its property settings and use the **Open** method to open it again later. To completely eliminate an object from memory, set the object variable to _Nothing_.

 **Remote Data Service Usage** When used on a client-side **Connection** object, the **Open** method doesn't actually establish a connection to the server until a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) is opened on the **Connection** object.


 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).

