
# Recordset2.Update Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_





## Syntax

 _expression_. **Update**( ** _UpdateType_**, ** _Force_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset2** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _UpdateType_|Optional|**Long**|A  **[UpdateTypeEnum](7ac38bae-27fc-f3d0-5b75-569bce547954.md)** constant indicating the type of update, as specified in Settings (ODBCDirect workspaces only).|
| _Force_|Optional|**Boolean**| A **Boolean** value indicating whether or not to force the changes into the database, regardless of whether the underlying data has been changed by another user since the **[AddNew](18cb35f6-8652-fb20-2460-3d13fae39d23.md)**, **[Delete](a8e249e7-7526-3eff-a5cf-70cab2081970.md)**, or **[Edit](34c51eee-274d-3511-b5e2-cb74e4925ec8.md)** call. If **True**, the changes are forced and changes made by other users are simply overwritten. If **False** (default), changes made by another user while the update is pending will cause the update to fail for those changes that are in conflict. No error occurs, but the **[BatchCollisionCount](9d166463-8313-c0f5-8389-5d5ad933eb33.md)** and **BatchCollisions** properties will indicate the number of conflicts and the rows affected by conflicts, respectively (ODBCDirect workspaces only).|

## Remarks

Use  **Update** to save the current record and any changes you've made to it.


 **Important**  Changes to the current record are lost if:




- You use the  **Edit** or **AddNew** method, and then move to another record without first using **Update**.
    
- You use  **Edit** or **AddNew**, and then use **Edit** or **AddNew** again without first using **Update**.
    
- You set the  **[Bookmark](7366d550-2f72-ed10-b230-eb144a6f874b.md)** property to another record.
    
- You close the  **Recordset** without first using **Update**.
    
- You cancel the  **Edit** operation by using **[CancelUpdate](f741dec1-b9a4-506e-74ec-2bc309b0918e.md)**.
    


To edit a record, use the  **Edit** method to copy the contents of the current record to the copy buffer. If you don't use **Edit** first, an error occurs when you use **Update** or attempt to change a field's value.

In an ODBCDirect workspace, you can do batch updates, provided the cursor library supports batch updates, and the  **Recordset** was opened with the optimistic batch locking option.

In a Microsoft Access workspace, when the  **Recordset** object's **LockEdits** property setting is **True** (pessimistically locked) in a multiuser environment, the record remains locked from the time **Edit** is used until the **Update** method is executed or the edit is canceled. If the **LockEdits** property setting is **False** (optimistically locked), the record is locked and compared with the pre-edited record just before it is updated in the database. If the record has changed since you used the **Edit** method, the **Update** operation fails. Microsoft Access database engine-connected ODBC and installable ISAM databases always use optimistic locking. To continue the **Update** operation with your changes, use the **Update** method again. To revert to the record as the other user changed it, refresh the current record by using `Move 0`.




 **Note**  To add, edit, or delete a record, there must be a unique index on the record in the underlying data source. If not, a "Permission denied" error will occur on the  **AddNew**, **Delete**, or **Edit** method call in a Microsoft Access workspace, or an "Invalid argument" error will occur on the **Update** call in an ODBCDirect workspace.

