
# DataFactory Object (RDSServer)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



This default server-side business object implements methods that provide read/write data access to specified data sources for client-side applications.

## Remarks

The  **RDSServer.DataFactory** object is designed as a server-side Automation object that receives client requests. In an Internet implementation, it resides on a Web server and is instantiated by the ADISAPI component. The **RDSServer.DataFactory** object provides read and write access to specified data sources, but doesn't contain any validation or business rules logic.

If you use a method that is available in both the  **RDSServer.DataFactory** and[RDS.DataControl](ac430669-7628-696c-c036-b5d35405d788.md) objects, Remote Data Service uses the **RDS.DataControl** version by default. The default assumes a basic programming scenario, where the **RDSServer.DataFactory** serves as a generic server-side business object.

If you want your Web application to handle task-specific server-side processing, you can replace the  **RDSServer.DataFactory** with a custom business object.

You can create server-side business objects that call the  **RDSServer.DataFactory** methods, such as[Query](c88d82bd-2139-7f1e-4e5e-9030f3795816.md) and[CreateRecordset](19524509-31da-9af1-4062-cd3c59b51278.md). This is helpful if you want to add functionality to your business objects, but take advantage of existing Remote Data Service technologies.

The class ID for the  **RDSServer.DataFactory** object is 9381D8F5-0288-11D0-9501-00AA00B911A5.

