
# Container Object (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

A  **Container** object groups similar types of **Document** objects together.


## Remarks

Each  **Database** object has a **Containers** collection consisting of built-in **Container** objects. Applications can define their own document types and corresponding containers (Microsoft Access database engine databases only); however, these objects may not always be supported through DAO.

Some of these  **Container** objects are defined by the Microsoft Access database engine while others may be defined by other applications. The following table lists the name of each **Container** object defined by the Microsoft Access database engine and what type of information it contains.



|**Container name**|**Contains information about**|
|:-----|:-----|
|Databases|Saved databases|
|Tables|Saved tables and queries|
|Relations|Saved relationships|



 **Note**  Don't confuse the  **Container** objects listed in the preceding table with the collections of the same name. The Databases **Container** object refers to all saved database objects, but the **Databases** collection refers only to database objects that are open in a particular workspace.

Each  **Container** object has a **Documents** collection containing **Document** objects that describe instances of built-in objects of the type specified by the **Container**. You typically use a **Container** object as an intermediate link to the information in the **Document** object. You can also use the **Containers** collection to set security for all **Document** objects of a given type.

With an existing  **Container** object, you can:




- Use the  **Name** property to return the predefined name of the **Container** object.
    
- Use the  **Owner** property to set or return the owner of the **Container** object. To set the **Owner** property, you must have write permission for the **Container** object, and you must set the property to the name of an existing **User** or **Group** object.
    
- Use the  **Permissions** and **UserName** properties to set access permissions for the **Container** object; any **Document** object created in the **Documents** collection of a **Container** object inherits these access permission settings.
    


Because  **Container** objects are built-in, you can't create new **Container** objects or delete existing ones.

To refer to a  **Container** object in a collection by its ordinal number or by its **Name** property setting, use any of the following syntax forms:




-  **Containers** (0)
    
-  **Containers** (" _name_ ")
    
-  **Containers** ![ _name_ ]
    



## Example

This example enumerates the  **Containers** collection of the Northwind database and the **Properties** collection of each **Container** object in the collection.


```vb
Sub ContainerObjectX() 
 
 Dim dbsNorthwind As Database 
 Dim ctrLoop As Container 
 Dim prpLoop As Property 
 
 Set dbsNorthwind = OpenDatabase("Northwind.mdb") 
 
 With dbsNorthwind 
 
 ' Enumerate Containers collection. 
 For Each ctrLoop In .Containers 
 Debug.Print "Properties of " &; ctrLoop.Name _ 
 &; " container" 
 
 ' Enumerate Properties collection of each 
 ' Container object. 
 For Each prpLoop In ctrLoop.Properties 
 Debug.Print " " &; prpLoop.Name _ 
 &; " = " prpLoop 
 Next prpLoop 
 
 Next ctrLoop 
 
 .Close 
 End With 
 
End Sub
```

