
# Size Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the maximum size, in bytes or characters, of a [Parameter](7577598e-3d0c-30c6-5f24-1cfe98791798.md) object.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **Long** value that indicates the maximum size in bytes or characters of a value in a **Parameter** object.


## Remarks

Use the  **Size** property to determine the maximum size for values written to or read from the[Value](ff21d122-98e3-2b48-d92f-e696b8079fc5.md) property of a **Parameter** object.

If you specify a variable-length data type for a  **Parameter** object (for example, any **String** type, such as **adVarChar** ), you must set the object's **Size** property before appending it to the[Parameters](554387c3-3572-5391-3b24-c7d3443844cd.md) collection; otherwise, an error occurs.

If you have already appended the  **Parameter** object to the **Parameters** collection of a[Command](64f4ef03-f858-c004-b891-0c96d13a5e6e.md) object and you change its type to a variable-length data type, you must set the **Parameter** object's **Size** property before executing the **Command** object; otherwise, an error occurs.

If you use the [Refresh](f1c8829f-9c7d-12b6-7470-727ff38d663e.md) method to obtain parameter information from the provider and it returns one or more variable-length data type **Parameter** objects, ADO may allocate memory for the parameters based on their maximum potential size, which could cause an error during execution. To prevent an error, you should explicitly set the **Size** property for these parameters before executing the command.

The  **Size** property is read/write.

