
# RunMacro Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **RunMacro** action to run a macro. The macro can be in a macro group.

You can use this action:

- To run a macro from within another macro.
    
- To run a macro based on a certain condition.
    
- To attach a macro to a custom menu command.
    

## Setting

The  **RunMacro** action has the following arguments.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Macro Name**|The name of the macro to run. The  **Macro Name** box in the **Action Arguments** section of the Macro Builder pane shows all macros (and macro groups) in the current database. If the macro is in a macro group, it's listed under the macro group name in the list as _macrogroupname_. _macroname_. This is a required argument. If you run a macro containing the **RunMacro** action in a library database, Microsoft Access looks for the macro with this name in the library database and doesn't look for it in the current database.|
|**Repeat Count**|The maximum number of times the macro will run. If you leave this argument blank (and the  **Repeat Expression** argument is also blank), the macro runs once.|
|**Repeat Expression**|An expression that evaluates to  **True** (-1) or **False** (0). The macro stops running if the expression evaluates to **False**. The expression is evaluated each time the macro runs.|

## Remarks

If you enter a macro group name for the  **Macro Name** argument, Access runs the first macro in the macro group.

This action is similar to clicking  **Run Macro** on the **Database Tools** tab, selecting a macro, and clicking **OK**. However, this command runs the macro only once, whereas the  **RunMacro** action can run a macro as many times as you want.


 **Tip**  You can use the  **Repeat Count** and **Repeat Expression** arguments to determine how many times the macro runs:


- If you leave both arguments blank, the macro runs once.
    
- If you enter a number for  **Repeat Count** but leave **Repeat Expression** blank, the macro runs the specified number of times.
    
- If you leave  **Repeat Count** blank but enter an expression for **Repeat Expression**, the macro runs until the expression evaluates to **False**.
    
- If you enter values for both arguments, the macro runs the number of times specified in  **Repeat Count** or until **Repeat Expression** evaluates to **False**, whichever occurs first.
    
When you run a macro containing the  **RunMacro** action, and it reaches the **RunMacro** action, Access runs the called macro. When the called macro has finished, Access returns to the original macro and runs the next action.


 **Note**  

To run the  **RunMacro** action in a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module, use the **RunMacro** method of the **DoCmd** object.

