
# OpenVisualBasicModule Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **OpenVisualBasicModule** action to open a specified Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module at a specified procedure. This can be a Sub procedure, a Function procedure, or an event procedure.


 **Note**  This action will not be allowed if the database is not trusted. For more information about enabling macros, see the links in the  **See Also** section of this article.


## Setting

The  **OpenVisualBasicModule** action has the following arguments.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Module Name**|The name of the module you want to open. You can leave this argument blank if you want to search all the standard modules in the database for a procedure and open the appropriate module at that procedure. If you run a macro containing the  **OpenVisualBasicModule** action in a library database, Microsoft Access first looks for the module with this name in the library database, and then in the current database.|
|**Procedure Name**|The name of the procedure you want to open the module to. If you leave this argument blank, the module opens to the Declarations section.|

 **Note**  You must enter a valid name in either the  **Module Name** or **Procedure Name** argument.


## Remarks

You can use this action to open an event procedure by specifying the  **Module Name** argument and the **Procedure Name** argument. For example, to open the **Click** event procedure of the PrintInvoice button on the form Orders, set the **Module Name** argument to **Form.Orders** and set the **Procedure Name** argument to **PrintInvoice_Click**. To view the event procedure for a form or report, the form or report must be open.

Similarly, to open a procedure in a class module, you must specify the module name, although the class module does not have to open.

To open a private procedure, the module containing it must be open.

This action has the same effect as right-clicking a module in the Navigation Pane and then clicking  **Design View**. This action also enables you to specify a procedure name and to search the standard modules in a database for procedures.


 **Tip**  You can select a module in the Navigation Pane and drag it to a macro action row. This automatically creates an  **OpenVisualBasicModule** action that opens the module to the Declarations section.

To run the  **OpenVisualBasicModule** action in a VBA module, use the **OpenModule** method of the **DoCmd** object.

