
# Supports Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Return Value](#sectionSection2)
[Parameters](#sectionSection3)
[Remarks](#sectionSection4)



Determines whether a specified [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object supports a particular type of functionality.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _boolean_ = _recordset_. **Supports** ( _CursorOptions_ )


## Return Value
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Returns a  **Boolean** value that indicates whether all of the features identified by the _CursorOptions_ argument are supported by the provider.


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  _CursorOptions_
    
- A  **Long** expression that consists of one or more[CursorOptionEnum](3c118c08-02f2-5290-1cef-29e97c35fddc.md) values.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>

Use the  **Supports** method to determine what types of functionality a **Recordset** object supports. If the **Recordset** object supports the features whose corresponding constants are in _CursorOptions_, the **Supports** method returns **True**. Otherwise, it returns **False**.


 **Note**  Although the  **Supports** method may return **True** for a given functionality, it does not guarantee that the provider can make the feature available under all circumstances. The **Supports** method simply returns whether the provider can support the specified functionality, assuming certain conditions are met. For example, the **Supports** method may indicate that a **Recordset** object supports updates even though the cursor is based on a multiple table join, some columns of which are not updatable.

