
# Using ADO with Scripting Languages

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[ODBC Data Sources](#sectionSection0)
[Referencing the ADO Library](#sectionSection1)
[Handling events](#sectionSection2)


Within a scripting environment, ADO allows you to expose data by way of server-side scripting. In this scenario, ADO, the underlying OLE DB provider that it utilizes, and any other components needed to reference a given data store are installed on a server running Internet Information Services (IIS). Using Active Server Pages (ASP), ADO is a component referenced in a script that can generate HTML, for example. This HTML content can be passed via HTTP to a client Web browser. Through the use of scripting, the Web page can send actions back to the server-side script, allowing you to update, traverse, or view specific data.

## ODBC Data Sources
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

One notable difference between scripting and non-scripting ADO code is the ODBC Data Source, if used. For non-scripting applications, you can create a User DSN in the ODBC Data Source Administrator. For scripts that are running under IIS, you must create a System DSN; otherwise your scripts won't recognize the data source you created. This applies to any ADO scripting application using the Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC through Microsoft IIS.


## Referencing the ADO Library
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

N/A with scripting languages.


## Handling events
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

N/A with scripting languages.

The following topics contain more specific information about using ADO with scripting languages:


- [ADO in VBScript](24be1c70-8813-ed98-c3e5-fb33a68e7b41.md)
    
- [ADO in JScript](2254f111-e6c2-1ad7-eb65-ee0550056d89.md)
    
