
# MinimizeWindow Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

If Access is configured to use overlapping windows instead of tabbed documents, you can use the  **MinimizeWindow** action to reduce the active window to a small title bar at the bottom of the Access window.


 **Note**  This action can't be applied to code windows in the Visual Basic Editor. For information about how to affect code windows, see the  **WindowState** property topic.


## Setting

The  **MinimizeWindow** action doesn't have any arguments.


## Remarks

You can use this action to remove a window from the screen while leaving the object open. You can also use this action to open an object without displaying its window. To display the object, use the  **SelectObject** action with either the **MaximizeWindow** or **RestoreWindow** action. The **RestoreWindow** action restores a minimized window to its previous size.

The  **MinimizeWindow** action has the same effect as clicking the **Minimize** button in the window's upper-right corner or clicking **Minimize** on the window's **Control** menu.

 **Tips**


- You may first need to use the  **SelectObject** action if the window you want to minimize isn't the active window.
    
- To hide the Navigation Pane, use the  **SelectObject** action with the In Navigation Pane argument set to **Yes** and then use the **MinimizeWindow** action. The object you select in the **SelectObject** action can be any object in the database.
    
- You can hide the active window by clicking  **Manage This Window** on the **View** menu, and then clicking **Hide**. Instead of being reduced to an icon, the window becomes invisible. Use the  **Unhide** command on the same menu to make the window reappear. You can use the **RunMenuCommand** action to carry out either of these commands from a macro.
    
- You can also use the  **SetValue** action to set a form's **Visible** property to hide or show the form's window.
    
To run the  **MinimizeWindow** action in a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module, use the **Minimize** method of the **DoCmd** object.

