
# SendKeys Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_


 **Security Note**  



You can use the  **SendKeys** action to send keystrokes directly to Microsoft Access or to an active Windows-based application.

 **Note**  This action will not be allowed if the database is not trusted. For more information about enabling macros, see the links in the  **See Also** section of this article.


## Setting

The  **SendKeys** action has the following arguments.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Keystrokes**|The keystrokes you want Access or the application to process. Enter the keystrokes in the  **Keystrokes** box in the **Action Arguments** section of the Macro Builder pane. You can type up to 255 characters. This is a required argument.|
|**Wait**|Specifies whether the macro should pause until the keystrokes have been processed. Click  **Yes** (to pause) or **No** (to not pause). The default is **No**.|

## Remarks

Access processes the keystrokes it receives through the  **SendKeys** action exactly as if you had typed them directly in an Access window.

To specify the keystrokes, use the same syntax as you would for the  **SendKeys** statement.


 **Note**  An error can occur if the  **Keystrokes** argument contains incorrect syntax, misspelled text, or other values that aren't appropriate for the window the keystrokes are sent to.

You can use this action to enter information in a dialog box, particularly if you don't want to interrupt the macro to respond manually to the dialog box. Some Access actions, such as  **PrintOut** and **FindRecord**, automatically select the options in certain frequently used dialog boxes. You can use the **SendKeys** action to select the options in less commonly used dialog boxes.


 **Note**  

If you want to send more than 255 characters to Access or another Windows-based application, you can use several  **SendKeys** actions in succession in a macro.

Using the  **SendKeys** action to send keystrokes triggers the appropriate **KeyDown**, **KeyUp**, and **KeyPress** events. Sending non-ANSI keystrokes (such as a function key) doesn't trigger the **KeyPress** event.

This action isn't available from a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module. Use the  **SendKeys** statement instead.

