
# AllDatabaseDiagrams Object (Access)

The  **AllDatabaseDiagrams** collection contains an **[AccessObject](8a770b33-5bff-120a-6707-ca214ee5ced3.md)** for each database diagram in the **[CurrentData](c8d3f74f-050d-e1be-9496-2f1e20996066.md)** or **[CodeData](fc207136-4d18-2c7d-ffe6-0e1ad7c2fc32.md)** object.


## Remarks

The  **CurrentData** or **CodeData** object has an **AllDatabaseDiagrams** collection containing **AccessObject** objects that describe instances of all database diagrams specified by **CurrentData** or **CodeData**. For example, you can enumerate the **AllDatabaseDiagrams** collection in Visual Basic to set or return the values of properties of individual **AccessObject** objects in the collection.

You can refer to an individual  **AccessObject** object in the **AllDatabaseDiagrams** collection either by referring to the object by name, or by referring to its index within the collection. If you want to refer to a specific object in the **AllDatabaseDiagrams** collection, it's better to refer to the database diagram by name because a database diagram's collection index may change.

The  **AllDatabaseDiagrams** collection is indexed beginning with zero. If you refer to a database diagram by its index, the first database diagram is AllDatabaseDiagrams(0), the second database diagram is AllDatabaseDiagrams(1), and so on.


 **Note**  

You can't add or delete an  **AccessObject** object from the **AllDatabaseDiagrams** collection.


## Example

The following example prints the name of each open  **AccessObject** object in the **AllDatabaseDiagrams** collection.


```
Sub AllDatabaseDiagrams() 
    Dim obj As AccessObject, dbs As Object 
    Set dbs = Application.CurrentData 
    ' Search for open AccessObject objects in 
    ' AllDatabaseDiagrams collection. 
    For Each obj In dbs.AllDatabaseDiagrams 
        If obj.IsLoaded = True Then 
            ' Print name of obj. 
            Debug.Print obj.Name 
        End If 
    Next obj 
End Sub 
```


## Properties



|**Name**|
|:-----|
|[Application](bd277b20-f6a3-b819-1ca7-4736b77f897f.md)|
|[Count](95bf1792-7ab2-ade2-b301-cd896855f116.md)|
|[Item](1f644e28-1988-e22a-b83b-033d1354d09c.md)|
|[Parent](51b83a15-7da5-a6dd-ec04-28b00f368ea0.md)|

## See also


#### Other resources


[Access Object Model Reference](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/2de134a4-6c5c-d2a3-8377-f4dd973ba650%28Office.15%29.aspx)