
# Step 2: Invoke the Server Program (RDS Tutorial)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

When you invoke a method on the client  _proxy_, the actual program on the server executes the method. In this step, you'll execute a query on the server.

 **Part A** If you weren't using[RDSServer.DataFactory](1de76cdd-34dc-8547-29aa-48ad6067bdea.md) in this tutorial, the most convenient way to perform this step would be to use the[RDS.DataControl](ac430669-7628-696c-c036-b5d35405d788.md) object. The **RDS.DataControl** combines the previous step of creating a proxy, with this step, issuing the query.
Set the  **RDS.DataControl** object[Server](17519dbe-a43a-1d0d-22c1-dc0def2f63ab.md) property to identify where the server program should be instantiated; the[Connect](11aa3284-18e9-6d2d-761b-c25090370b77.md) property to specify the connect string to access the data source; and the[SQL](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/210adcbb-5c89-150b-4c61-6a52dea9af56%28Office.15%29.aspx) property to specify the query command text. Then issue the[Refresh](968baa7c-9128-7155-a1eb-d77aedda6601.md) method to cause the server program to connect to the data source, retrieve rows specified by the query, and return a **Recordset** object to the client.
This tutorial does not use the  **RDS.DataControl**, but this is how it would look if it did:



```vb
Sub RDSTutorial2A() 
 Dim DC as New RDS.DataControl 
 DC.Server = "http://yourServer" 
 DC.Connect = "DSN=Pubs" 
 DC.SQL = "SELECT * FROM Authors" 
 DC.Refresh 
'... 
End Sub
```

Nor does the tutorial invoke RDS with ADO objects, but this is how it would look if it did:



```
 
Dim rs as New ADODB.Recordset 
rs.Open "SELECT * FROM Authors","Provider=MS Remote;Data Source=Pubs;" &; _ 
"Remote Server=http://yourServer;Remote Provider=SQLOLEDB;" 

```

 **Part B** The general method of performing this step is to invoke the **RDSServer.DataFactory** object[Query](c88d82bd-2139-7f1e-4e5e-9030f3795816.md) method. That method takes a connect string, which is used to connect to a data source, and a command text, which is used to specify the rows to be returned from the data source.
This tutorial uses the  **DataFactory** object **Query** method:



```vb
Sub RDSTutorial2B() 
 Dim DS as New RDS.DataSpace 
 Dim DF 
 Dim RS as ADODB.Recordset 
 Set DF = DS.CreateObject("RDSServer.DataFactory", "http://yourServer") 
 Set RS = DF.Query ("DSN=Pubs", "SELECT * FROM Authors") 
'... 
End Sub
```

