
# Name Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the name of an object.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **String** value that indicates the name of an object.


## Remarks

Use the  **Name** property to assign a name to or retrieve the name of a **Command**, **Property**, **Field**, or **Parameter** object.

The value is read/write on a  **Command** object and read-only on a **Property** object.

For a  **Field** object, **Name** is normally read-only. However, for new **Field** objects that have been appended to the[Fields](029aa738-8726-54a6-1813-b152813948bc.md) collection of a[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md),  **Name** is read/write only after the[Value](ff21d122-98e3-2b48-d92f-e696b8079fc5.md) property for the **Field** has been specified and the data provider has successfully added the new **Field** by calling the[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) method of the **Fields** collection.

For  **Parameter** objects not yet appended to the[Parameters](554387c3-3572-5391-3b24-c7d3443844cd.md) collection, the **Name** property is read/write. For appended **Parameter** objects and all other objects, the **Name** property is read-only. Names do not have to be unique within a collection.

You can retrieve the  **Name** property of an object by an ordinal reference, after which you can refer to the object directly by name. For example, if `rstMain.Properties(20).Name` yields `Updatability`, you can subsequently refer to this property as yields  `Updatability`, you can subsequently refer to this property as  `rstMain.Properties("Updatability")`.

