
# Attributes Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Attributes Property](#sectionSection1)
[Settings and Return Values](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)




## Attributes Property
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Indicates one or more characteristics of an object.


## Settings and Return Values
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Sets or returns a  **Long** value.

For a [Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object, the **Attributes** property is read/write, and its value can be the sum of one or more[XactAttributeEnum](9206698b-7cfa-1229-2701-f2b6949e54fc.md) values. The default is zero (0).

For a [Parameter](7577598e-3d0c-30c6-5f24-1cfe98791798.md) object, the **Attributes** property is read/write, and its value can be the sum of any one or more[ParameterAttributesEnum](cdc24616-cebf-da05-6690-8e29e69e0d55.md) values. The default is **adParamSigned**.

For a [Field](1dbd535e-48ad-a5c8-a1b2-6776c1e3e19d.md) object, the **Attributes** property can be the sum of one or more[FieldAttributeEnum](2d3a541e-a437-6108-ab0e-90c7884b3df7.md) values. It is normally read-only, However, for new **Field** objects that have been appended to the[Fields](029aa738-8726-54a6-1813-b152813948bc.md) collection of a[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md),  **Attributes** is read/write only after the[Value](ff21d122-98e3-2b48-d92f-e696b8079fc5.md) property for the **Field** has been specified and the new **Field** has been successfully added by the data provider by calling the[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) method of the **Fields** collection.

For a [Property](eec318fd-f5ed-d9ef-9830-848439a8914d.md) object, the **Attributes** property is read-only, and its value can be the sum of any one or more[PropertyAttributesEnum](cbe93f65-a3ee-4741-1ac7-1c98ac53cdde.md) values.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

Use the  **Attributes** property to set or return characteristics of **Connection** objects, **Parameter** objects,[Field](1dbd535e-48ad-a5c8-a1b2-6776c1e3e19d.md) objects, or[Property](eec318fd-f5ed-d9ef-9830-848439a8914d.md) objects.

When you set multiple attributes, you can sum the appropriate constants. If you set the property value to a sum including incompatible constants, an error occurs.

 **Remote Data Service Usage** This property is not available on a client-side **Connection** object.

