
# AbsolutePosition Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates the ordinal position of a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object's current record.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **Long** value from 1 to the number of records in the **Recordset** object ([RecordCount](e3072d10-5bf7-02a8-027e-a9d9a34e3f27.md)), or returns one of the [PositionEnum](2a6f294b-74f2-b951-e32a-79ff5e782204.md) values.


## Remarks

In order to set the  **AbsolutePosition** property, ADO requires that the OLE DB provider you are using implement the IRowsetLocate interface.

Accessing the  **AbsolutePosition** property of a **Recordset** that was opened with either a forward-only or dynamic cursor raises the error **adErrFeatureNotAvailable**. With other cursor types, the correct position will be returned as long as the provider supports the IRowsetScroll interface. If the provider does not support the _IRowsetScroll_ interface, the property is set to **adPosUnknown**. See the documentation for your provider to determine whether it supports _IRowsetScroll_.

Use the  **AbsolutePosition** property to move to a record based on its ordinal position in the **Recordset** object, or to determine the ordinal position of the current record. The provider must support the appropriate functionality for this property to be available.

Like the [AbsolutePage](b6e5daac-cc21-0aa6-9119-a973595762bb.md) property, **AbsolutePosition** is 1-based and equals 1 when the current record is the first record in the **Recordset**. You can obtain the total number of records in the **Recordset** object from the[RecordCount](e3072d10-5bf7-02a8-027e-a9d9a34e3f27.md) property.

When you set the  **AbsolutePosition** property, even if it is to a record in the current cache, ADO reloads the cache with a new group of records starting with the record you specified. The[CacheSize](42f86cc0-30dc-669b-9e65-5e7ecd52c4d7.md) property determines the size of this group.


 **Note**  You should not use the  **AbsolutePosition** property as a surrogate record number. The position of a given record changes when you delete a preceding record. There is also no assurance that a given record will have the same **AbsolutePosition** if the **Recordset** object is requeried or reopened. Bookmarks are still the recommended way of retaining and returning to a given position and are the only way of positioning across all types of **Recordset** objects.

