
# SetReturnVar Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Setting](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)
[About the Contributors](#AboutContributors)


The  **SetReturnVar** action creates a return variable and sets it to a specific value.

 **Note**  The  **SetReturnVar** action is available only in Data Macros.


## Setting
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

The  **SetReturnVar** action has the following arguments.



|**Argument**|**Required**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Name_|Yes|A string that specifies the name of the variable.|
| _Expression_|Yes|An expression that will be used to set the value for this temporary variable. Do not precede the expression with the equal sign (=). You can click the  **Build** button to use the **Expression Builder** to set this argument.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **SetReturnVar** action is used to create a **ReturnVar**, which is variable that can be used by macros that call a data macro by using the **RunDataMacro** action.

Once a  **ReturnVar** is created by the **SetReturnVar** action, the calling macro can use it in an expression. For example, if you created a **ReturnVar** named **UpdateSuccess**, you could use the variable by using the following syntax:




```
=[ReturnVars]![UpdateSuccess]
```

The  **SetReturnVar** action can be used only in named data macros. It is not available in data macros that are attached to a data macro event.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example shows how to use the  **SetReturnVar** action to return a value from a named data macro. A **ReturnVar** named **CurrentServiceRequest** is returned to the macro or Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) subroutine that called the named data macro.

 **Sample code provided by:** The[Microsoft Access 2010 Programmer's Reference](http://www.wrox.com/WileyCDA/WroxTitle/Access-2010-Programmer-s-Reference.productCd-0470591668.mdl)




```text
RunDataMacro
    Macro Name tblServiceRequests.dmGetCurrentServiceRequest

Parameters
    prmAssignedTo =[ID]

SetProperty
    Control Name txtCurrentSR
    Property Value
    Value =[ReturnVars]![CurrentServiceRequest]
```


## About the Contributors
<a name="AboutContributors"> </a>

Wrox Press is driven by the Programmer to Programmer philosophy. Wrox books are written by programmers for programmers, and the Wrox brand means authoritative solutions to real-world programming problems. 

