
# GetRows Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Return Value](#sectionSection2)
[Parameters](#sectionSection3)
[Remarks](#sectionSection4)



Retrieves multiple records of a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object into an array.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _array_ = _recordset_. **GetRows**( _Rows_, _Start_, _Fields_ )


## Return Value
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Returns a  **Variant** whose value is a two-dimensional array.


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  _Rows_
    
- Optional. A [GetRowsOptionEnum](5c1665bb-555c-f83f-066c-d6de2dd0343f.md) value that indicates the number of records to retrieve. The default is **adGetRowsRest**.
    
-  _Start_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value or **Variant** that evaluates to the bookmark for the record from which the **GetRows** operation should begin. You can also use a[BookmarkEnum](75cf5edd-bcb6-ab61-8703-73775cce91de.md) value.
    
-  _Fields_
    
- Optional. A  **Variant** that represents a single field name or ordinal position, or an array of field names or ordinal position numbers. ADO returns only the data in these fields.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>

Use the  **GetRows** method to copy records from a **Recordset** into a two-dimensional array. The first subscript identifies the field and the second identifies the record number. The _array_ variable is automatically dimensioned to the correct size when the **GetRows** method returns the data.

If you do not specify a value for the  _Rows_ argument, the **GetRows** method automatically retrieves all the records in the **Recordset** object. If you request more records than are available, **GetRows** returns only the number of available records.

If the  **Recordset** object supports bookmarks, you can specify at which record the **GetRows** method should begin retrieving data by passing the value of that record's[Bookmark](101b2ce1-21d8-aa79-e530-20f9d1c73fc8.md) property in the _Start_ argument.

If you want to restrict the fields that the  **GetRows** call returns, you can pass either a single field name/number or an array of field names/numbers in the _Fields_ argument.

After you call  **GetRows**, the next unread record becomes the current record, or the[EOF](f797e140-5572-1a4d-9afc-285f6a3868a8.md) property is set to **True** if there are no more records.

