
# OpenSchema Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Return Values](#sectionSection2)
[Parameters](#sectionSection3)
[Remarks](#sectionSection4)



Obtains database schema information from the provider .

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **Set** _recordset_ = _connection_. **OpenSchema** ( _QueryType_, _Criteria_, _SchemaID_ )


## Return Values
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Returns a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object that contains schema information. The **Recordset** will be opened as a read-only, static cursor . The _QueryType_ determines what columns appear in the **Recordset**.


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  _QueryType_
    
- Any [SchemaEnum](6147b682-3c4f-ea91-fff6-ac73107d206d.md) value that represents the type of schema query to run.
    
-  _Criteria_
    
- Optional. An array of query constraints for each  _QueryType_ option, as listed in **SchemaEnum**.
    
-  _SchemaID_
    
- The GUID for a provider-schema query not defined by the OLE DB specification. This parameter is required if  _QueryType_ is set to **adSchemaProviderSpecific**; otherwise, it is not used.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>

The  **OpenSchema** method returns self-descriptive information about the data source, such as what tables are in the data source, the columns in the tables, and the data types supported.

The  _QueryType_ argument is a GUID that indicates the columns (schemas) returned. The OLE DB specification has a full list of schemas.

The  _Criteria_ argument limits the results of a schema query. _Criteria_ specifies an array of values that must occur in a corresponding subset of columns, called _constraint columns_, in the resulting **Recordset**.

The constant  **adSchemaProviderSpecific** is used for the _QueryType_ argument if the provider defines its own nonstandard schema queries outside those listed above. When this constant is used, the _SchemaID_ argument is required to pass the GUID of the schema query to execute. If _QueryType_ is set to **adSchemaProviderSpecific** but _SchemaID_ is not provided, an error will result.

Providers are not required to support all of the OLE DB standard schema queries. Specifically, only  **adSchemaTables**, **adSchemaColumns**, and **adSchemaProviderTypes** are required by the OLE DB specification. However, the provider is not required to support the _Criteria_ constraints listed above for those schema queries.

 **Remote Data Service Usage** The **OpenSchema** method is not available on a client-side[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object.


 **Note**  In Visual Basic, columns that have a four-byte unsigned integer (DBTYPE UI4) in the  **Recordset** returned from the **OpenSchema** method on the **Connection** object cannot be compared to other variables. For more information about OLE DB data types, see Chapter 13 and Appendix A of the _Microsoft OLE DB Programmer's Reference_.

