
# Resync Command Property--Dynamic (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Specifies a user-supplied command string that the [Resync](f594a200-56e6-fcf5-9b0a-900c56377f24.md) method issues to refresh the data in the table named in the[Unique Table](e6374782-755b-322b-21de-6d6a386dcd98.md) dynamic property.

## Settings and Return Values

Sets or returns a  **String** value which is a command string.


## Remarks

The [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object is the result of a JOIN operation executed on multiple base tables. The rows affected depend on the _AffectRecords_ parameter of the[Resync](f594a200-56e6-fcf5-9b0a-900c56377f24.md) method. The standard **Resync** method is executed if the[Unique Table](e6374782-755b-322b-21de-6d6a386dcd98.md) and **Resync Command** properties are not set.

The command string of the  **Resync Command** property is a parameterized command or stored procedure that uniquely identifies the row being refreshed, and returns a single row containing the same number and order of columns as the row to be refreshed. The command string contains a parameter for each primary key column in the **Unique Table**; otherwise, a run-time error is returned. The parameters are automatically filled in with primary key values from the row to be refreshed.

Here are two examples based on SQL:

1) The  **Recordset** is defined by a command:




```sql
SELECT * FROM Customers JOIN Orders ON 
   Customers.CustomerID = Orders.CustomerID
   WHERE city = Seattle
   ORDER BY CustomerID

```

The  **Resync Command** property is set to:




```sql

"SELECT * FROM 
   (SELECT * FROM Customers JOIN Orders 
   ON Customers.CustomerID = Orders.CustomerID
   city = Seattle ORDER BY CustomerID)
WHERE Orders.OrderID = ?"
```

The  **Unique Table** is _Orders_ and its primary key, _OrderID_, is parameterized. The sub-select provides a simple way to programmatically ensure that the same number and order of columns are returned as by the original command.

2) The  **Recordset** is defined by a stored procedure:




```sql
CREATE PROC Custorders @CustomerID char(5) AS 
SELECT * FROM Customers JOIN Orders ON 
Customers.CustomerID = Orders.CustomerID 
WHERE Customers.CustomerID = @CustomerID
```

The  **Resync** method should execute the following stored procedure:




```sql
CREATE PROC CustordersResync @ordid int AS 
SELECT * FROM Customers JOIN Orders ON 
Customers.CustomerID = Orders.CustomerID
WHERE Orders.ordid  = @ordid
```

The  **Resync Command** property is set to:




```

"{call CustordersResync (?)}"
```

Once again, the  **Unique Table** is _Orders_ and its primary key, _OrderID_, is parameterized.

 **Resync Command** is a dynamic property appended to the **Recordset** object[Properties](4d662790-1252-c930-e6f9-edf6a38636af.md) collection when the[CursorLocation](8a048bd4-ae25-a555-1c07-14364b7e6560.md) property is set to **adUseClient**.

