
# Database.Synchronize Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Synchronizes two replicas. (Microsoft Access workspaces only).


## Syntax

 _expression_. **Synchronize**( ** _DbPathName_**, ** _ExchangeType_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Database** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _DbPathName_|Required|**String**|The path to the target replica with which database will be synchronized. |
| _ExchangeType_|Optional|**Variant**|A  **[SynchronizeTypeEnum](f9546171-283d-e9bd-5178-41bd4f41c9a6.md)** constant indicating which direction to synchronize changes between the two databases.|

## Remarks

You use  **Synchronize** to exchange data and design changes between two databases. Design changes always happen first. Both databases must be at the same design level before they can exchange data. For example, an exchange of type **dbRepExportChanges** might cause design changes at a replica even though data changes flow only from the _database_ to _DbPathName_.

The replica identified in  _DbPathName_ must be part of the same replica set. If both replicas have the same **ReplicaID** property setting or are Design Masters for two different replica sets, the synchronization fails.

When you synchronize two replicas over the Internet, you must use the  **dbRepSyncInternet** constant. In this case, you specify a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) address for the _DbPathName_ argument instead of specifying a local area network path.




 **Note**  You can't synchronize partial replicas with other partial replicas. See the  **[PopulatePartial](fa3227a2-c961-6a98-32b3-5b6e5329a21d.md)** method for more information.

