
# Recordset.FindFirst Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)
[About the Contributors](#AboutContributors)


Locates the first record in a dynaset- or snapshot-type  **Recordset** object that satisfies the specified criteria and makes that record the current record (Microsoft Access workspaces only).

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **FindFirst**( ** _Criteria_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Criteria_|Required|**String**|A  **String** used to locate the record. It is like the WHERE clause in an SQL statement, but without the word WHERE.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If you want to include all the records in your search — not just those that meet a specific condition — use the  **Move** methods to move from record to record. To locate a record in a table-type **Recordset**, use the **Seek** method.

If a record matching the criteria isn't located, the current record pointer is unknown, and the  **NoMatch** property is set to **True**. If recordset contains more than one record that satisfies the criteria, **FindFirst** locates the first occurrence, **FindNext** locates the next occurrence, and so on.

Each of the  **Find** methods begins its search from the location and in the direction specified in the following table.



|**Find method**|**Begins searching at**|**Search direction**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**FindFirst**|Beginning of recordset|End of recordset|
|**FindLast**|End of recordset|Beginning of recordset|
|**FindNext**|Current record|End of recordset|
|**FindPrevious**|Current record|Beginning of recordset|
Using one of the  **Find** methods isn't the same as using a **Move** method, however, which simply makes the first, last, next, or previous record current without specifying a condition. You can follow a **Find** operation with a **Move** operation.

Always check the value of the  **NoMatch** property to determine whether the **Find** operation has succeeded. If the search succeeds, **NoMatch** is **False**. If it fails, **NoMatch** is **True** and the current record isn't defined. In this case, you must position the current record pointer back to a valid record.

Using the  **Find** methods with Microsoft Access database engine-connected ODBC-accessed recordsets can be inefficient. You may find that rephrasing your criteria to locate a specific record is faster, especially when working with large recordsets.

When working with Microsoft Access database engine-connected ODBC databases and large dynaset-type  **Recordset** objects, you might discover that using the **Find** methods or using the **Sort** or **Filter** property is slow. To improve performance, use SQL queries with customized ORDER BY or WHERE clauses, parameter queries, or **QueryDef** objects that retrieve specific indexed records.

You should use the U.S. date format (month-day-year) when you search for fields containing dates, even if you're not using the U.S. version of the Microsoft Access database engine; otherwise, the data may not be found. Use the Visual Basic  **Format** function to convert the date. For example:




```
rstEmployees.FindFirst "HireDate > #" _ 
    &; Format(mydate, 'm-d-yy' ) &; "#" 

```

If criteria is composed of a string concatenated with a non-integer value, and the system parameters specify a non-U.S. decimal character such as a comma (for example,  `strSQL = "PRICE > " &; lngPrice`, and  `lngPrice = 125,50`), an error occurs when you try to call the method. This is because during concatenation, the number will be converted to a string using your system's default decimal character, and Microsoft Access SQL only accepts U.S. decimal characters.


 **Note**  


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example shows how to use the  **FindFirst** and **FindNext** methods to find a record in a **Recordset**.

 **Sample code provided by:** The[Microsoft Access 2010 Programmer's Reference](http://www.wrox.com/WileyCDA/WroxTitle/Access-2010-Programmer-s-Reference.productCd-0470591668.mdl) |[About the Contributors](#AboutContributors)




```vb
Sub FindOrgName()

    Dim dbs As DAO.Database
    Dim rst As DAO.Recordset
    
    'Get the database and Recordset
    Set dbs = CurrentDb
    Set rst = dbs.OpenRecordset("tblCustomers")

    'Search for the first matching record   
    rst.FindFirst "[OrgName] LIKE '*parts*'"
    
    'Check the result
    If rst.NoMatch Then
        MsgBox "Record not found."
        GotTo Cleanup
    Else
        Do While Not rst.NoMatch
            MsgBox "Customer name: " &; rst!CustName
            rst.FindNext "[OrgName] LIKE '*parts*'"
        Loop

        'Search for the next matching record
        rst.FindNext "[OrgName] LIKE '*parts*'"
    End If
   
    Cleanup:
        rst.Close
        Set rst = Nothing
        Set dbs = Nothing

End Sub
```


## About the Contributors
<a name="AboutContributors"> </a>

Wrox Press is driven by the Programmer to Programmer philosophy. Wrox books are written by programmers for programmers, and the Wrox brand means authoritative solutions to real-world programming problems. 

