
# SetPermissions Method (ADOX)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Specifies the permissions for a group or user on an object.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _GroupOrUser_. **SetPermissions** _Name_, _ObjectType_, _Action_, _Rights_ [, _Inherit_ ] [, _ObjectTypeId_ ]


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Name_
    
- A  **String** value that specifies the name of the object for which to set permissions.
    
-  _ObjectType_
    
- A  **Long** value which can be one of the[ObjectTypeEnum](b0ee2113-dea9-912d-3442-e54885397310.md) constants, that specifies the type of the object for which to get permissions.
    
-  _Action_
    
- A  **Long** value which can be one of the[ActionEnum](225024c1-9088-b532-2a23-04c1aaaaa892.md) constants that specifies the type of action to perform when setting permissions.
    
-  _Rights_
    
- A  **Long** value which can be a bitmask of one or more of the[RightsEnum](7647b9d5-5271-fdcf-489d-5a8beb931ca5.md) constants, that indicates the rights to set.
    
-  _Inherit_
    
- Optional. A  **Long** value which can be one of the[InheritTypeEnum](aa505c66-5871-10a8-35a7-cb30bb5dc21a.md) constants, that specifies how objects will inherit these permissions. The default value is **adInheritNone**.
    
-  _ObjectTypeId_
    
- Optional. A  **Variant** value that specifies the GUID for a provider object type not defined by the OLE DB specification. This parameter is required if _ObjectType_ is set to **adPermObjProviderSpecific**; otherwise, it is not used.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

An error will occur if the provider does not support setting access rights for groups or users.


 **Note**  When calling  **SetPermissions**, setting Actions to **adAccessRevoke** overrides any settings of the _Rights_ parameter. Do not set _Actions_ to **adAccessRevoke** if you want the rights specified in the _Rights_ parameter to take effect.

