
# Data Shaping

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Data shaping enables you to define the columns of a shaped  **Recordset**, the relationships between the entities represented by the columns, and the manner in which the **Recordset** is populated with data.

Columns of a shaped  **Recordset** may contain data from a data provider such as Microsoft SQL Server, references to another **Recordset**, values derived from a calculation on a single row of a **Recordset**, values derived from an operation over a column of an entire **Recordset**; or they may be a newly fabricated, empty column.
When you retrieve the value of a column that contains a reference to another  **Recordset**, ADO automatically returns the actual **Recordset** represented by the reference. A **Recordset** that contains another **Recordset** is called a hierarchical recordset. Hierarchical recordsets exhibit a _parent-child_ relationship, in which the _parent_ is the containing recordset and the _child_ is the contained recordset. The reference to a **Recordset** is actually a reference to a subset of the child, called a _chapter_. A single parent may reference more than one child **Recordset**.
The shape command syntax enables you to programmatically create a shaped  **Recordset**. You can then access the components of the **Recordset** programmatically or through an appropriate visual control. A shape command is issued like any other ADO command text.
You can make hierarchical  **Recordset** objects in two ways with the shape command syntax. The first appends a child **Recordset** to a parent **Recordset**. The parent and child typically have at least one column in common: the value of the column in a row of the parent is the same as the value of the column in all rows of the child.
The second way generates a parent  **Recordset** from a child **Recordset**. The records in the child **Recordset** are grouped, typically using the BY clause, and one row is added to the parent **Recordset** for each resulting group in the child. If the BY clause is omitted, the child **Recordset** will form a single group and the parent **Recordset** will contain exactly one row. This is useful for computing "grand total" aggregates over the entire child **Recordset**.
Regardless of which way the parent  **Recordset** is formed, it will contain a chapter column that is used to relate it to a child **Recordset**. If you wish, the parent **Recordset** may also have columns that contain aggregates (SUM, MIN, MAX, and so on) over the child rows. Both the parent and the child **Recordset** may have columns which contain an expression on the row in the **Recordset**, as well as columns which are new and initially empty.
You can nest hierarchical  **Recordset** objects to any depth (that is, create child **Recordset** objects of child **Recordset** objects, and so on).
You can access the  **Recordset** components of the shaped **Recordset** programmatically or through an appropriate visual control.
For examples of shape commands and their resulting hierarchies, see Using the Data Shaping Service for OLE DB: A Closer Look.
