
# Recordset.FindLast Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Locates the last record in a dynaset- or snapshot-type  **[Recordset](9774232c-e6da-175b-fc7f-ed2ab7908fa0.md)** object that satisfies the specified criteria and makes that record the current record (Microsoft Access workspaces only).


## Syntax

 _expression_. **FindLast**( ** _Criteria_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Criteria_|Required|**String**|A String used to locate the record. It is like the WHERE clause in an SQL statement, but without the word WHERE.|

## Remarks

If you want to include all the records in your search — not just those that meet a specific condition — use the  **Move** methods to move from record to record. To locate a record in a table-type **Recordset**, use the **Seek** method.

If a record matching the criteria isn't located, the current record pointer is unknown, and the  **NoMatch** property is set to **True**. If recordset contains more than one record that satisfies the criteria, **FindFirst** locates the first occurrence, **FindNext** locates the next occurrence, and so on.

Each of the  **Find** methods begins its search from the location and in the direction specified in the following table.



|**Find method**|**Begins searching at**|**Search direction**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**FindFirst**|Beginning of recordset|End of recordset|
|**FindLast**|End of recordset|Beginning of recordset|
|**FindNext**|Current record|End of recordset|
|**FindPrevious**|Current record|Beginning of recordset|
When you use the  **FindLast** method, the Microsoft Access database engine fully populates your **Recordset** before beginning the search, if this hasn't already happened.

Using one of the  **Find** methods isn't the same as using a **Move** method, however, which simply makes the first, last, next, or previous record current without specifying a condition. You can follow a Find operation with a Move operation.

Always check the value of the  **NoMatch** property to determine whether the Find operation has succeeded. If the search succeeds, **NoMatch** is **False**. If it fails, **NoMatch** is **True** and the current record isn't defined. In this case, you must position the current record pointer back to a valid record.

Using the  **Find** methods with Microsoft Access database engine-connected ODBC-accessed recordsets can be inefficient. You may find that rephrasing your criteria to locate a specific record is faster, especially when working with large recordsets.

When working with Microsoft Access database engine-connected ODBC databases and large dynaset-type  **Recordset** objects, you might discover that using the **Find** methods or using the **Sort** or **Filter** property is slow. To improve performance, use SQL queries with customized ORDER BY or WHERE clauses, parameter queries, or **QueryDef** objects that retrieve specific indexed records.

You should use the U.S. date format (month-day-year) when you search for fields containing dates, even if you're not using the U.S. version of the Microsoft Access database engine; otherwise, the data may not be found. Use the Visual Basic  **Format** function to convert the date. For example:




```
rstEmployees.FindFirst "HireDate > #" _ 
    &; Format(mydate, 'm-d-yy' ) &; "#" 

```

If criteria is composed of a string concatenated with a non-integer value, and the system parameters specify a non-U.S. decimal character such as a comma (for example,  `strSQL = "PRICE > " &; lngPrice`, and  `lngPrice = 125,50`), an error occurs when you try to call the method. This is because during concatenation, the number will be converted to a string using your system's default decimal character, and Microsoft Access SQL only accepts U.S. decimal characters.


 **Note**  

