
# Chapter 2: Getting Data

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

The preceding chapter introduced four primary operations involved in creating an ADO application: getting data, examining data, editing data, and updating data. This chapter will focus on the details of the concepts relevant to the first operation: getting data.

Several ADO objects can play a role in this operation. First you connect to the data source using an ADO  **Connection** object (which at times will be created implicitly). Then you pass instructions to the data source about what you want to do using an ADO **Command** object (which also can be created implicitly). The result of passing a command to a data source and receiving its response usually will be represented in an ADO **Recordset** object.
To get data, your application must be in communication with a data source, such as a DBMS, a file store, or a comma-delimited text file. This communication represents a  _connection_ — the environment necessary for exchanging data.
The ADO object model represents the concept of a connection with the  **Connection** object — the foundation upon which much ADO functionality is built. The purpose of a **Connection** object is to:

- Define the information ADO needs to communicate with data sources and create sessions.
    
- Define the transactional capabilities of the session.
    
- Allow you to create and execute commands against the data source.
    
- Provide information about the design of the underlying data source in the form of schema rowsets. For more information about schema rowsets, see [OpenSchema Method](57771163-a14e-207a-2942-849acb79a9a1.md).
    
