
# Chapter 10: Records and Streams

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

ADO currently provides the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object as the primary means of accessing information in data sources, such as relational databases. However, some providers support the[Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) and[Stream](d49b1514-e0b4-0aca-d5c2-8266f3f4fe65.md) objects as alternative or complementary objects with which data from providers can be manipulated. For specifics on **Record** behavior, see your provider's documentation.


## Records

 **Record** objects essentially function as one-row **Recordset** s. However, **Records** have limited functionality compared to **Recordsets** and they have different properties and methods.The source for the data in a **Record** object can be a command which returns one row of data from the provider. Using **Record** objects rather than **Recordset** objects to receive the results from a query that returns one row of data eliminates the overhead of instantiating the more complex **Recordset** object.

 **Record** objects can serve another purpose, particularly with providers for data sources other than traditional relational databases, such as the[Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). Much of the information that must be processed exists, not as tables in databases, but as messages in electronic mail systems and files in modern file systems. The  **Record** and **Stream** objects facilitate access to information stored in sources other than relational databases.

The  **Record** object can represent and manage data such as directories and files in a file system or folders and messages in an e-mail system. For these purposes, the source for the **Record** can be the current row of an open **Recordset**, an absolute URL, or a relative URL in conjunction with an open[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object.

Typically, a  **Recordset** can be used to represent a container or parent in a hierarchy such as a folder or directory. A **Record** can be used to return specific information about one node in the parent container, such as a file or document. The primary reason **Records** are used to represent this type of information is that these sources of data are heterogenous. This means that each **Record** may have a different set and number of fields. Traditional **Recordsets** containing rows from a database are homogenous, which means that each row has the same number and type of fields.

For more information about using the  **Record** object for processing this heterogeneous data from providers such as the Internet Publishing Provider, see[Using ADO for Internet Publishing](1e829783-fc12-e303-6f12-2df1ca96cb0f.md).


## Streams

The  **Stream** object provides the means to read, write, and manage a stream of bytes. This byte stream may be text or binary and is limited in size only by system resources. Typically, ADO **Stream** objects are used for the following purposes:


- To contain the text or bytes that comprise a file or message, typically used with providers such as the Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing. For more information about this use of  **Stream** objects, see[Using ADO for Internet Publishing](1e829783-fc12-e303-6f12-2df1ca96cb0f.md).
    
A  **Stream** object can be opened on:


- A simple file specified with a URL.
    
- A field of a  **Record** or **Recordset** containing a **Stream** object.
    
- The default stream of a  **Record** or **Recordset** object representing a directory or compound file.
    
- A resource field containing the URL of a simple file.
    
- No particular source at all. In this case, a  **Stream** object is opened in memory. Data can be written to it and then saved in another **Stream** or file.
    
- A BLOB field in a  **Recordset**.
    
