
# DataSpace Object (RDS)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Creates client-side proxies to custom business objects located on the middle tier.

## Remarks

Remote Data Service needs business object proxies so that client-side component can communicate with business objects located on the middle tier. Proxies facilitate the packaging, unpackaging, and transport (marshaling) of the application's [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) data across process or machine boundaries.

Remote Data Service uses the  **RDS.DataSpace** object's[CreateObject](130debe5-31cf-4ab0-5f78-9adaec7d7126.md) method to create business object proxies. The business object proxy is dynamically created whenever an instance of its middle-tier business object counterpart is created. Remote Data Service supports the following protocols: HTTP, HTTPS (HTTP Secure Sockets), DCOM, and in-process (client components and the business object reside on the same computer).


 **Note**  RDS behaves in a "stateless" manner when the  **RDS.DataSpace** object uses the HTTP or HTTPS protocols. That is, any internal information about a client request is discarded after the server returns a response.

Although the business object appears to exist for the lifetime of the business object proxy, the business object actually exists only until a response is sent to a request. When a request is issued (that is, a method is invoked on the business object), the proxy opens a new connection to the server and the server creates a new instance of the business object. After the business object responds to the request, the server destroys the business object and closes the connection.

This behavior means you cannot pass data from one request to another using a business object property or variable. You must employ some other mechanism, such as a file or a method argument, to persist state data.

The class ID for the  **RDS.DataSpace** object is BD96C556-65A3-11D0-983A-00C04FC29E36.

