
# Chapter 4: Editing Data

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

The preceding two chapters explained how use ADO to connect to a data source, execute a command, get the results in a  **Recordset** object, and navigate within the **Recordset**. This chapter focuses on the next fundamental ADO operation: editing data.

This chapter continues to use the sample  **Recordset** introduced in Chapter 3 — with one important change. The following code is used to open the **Recordset**:



```vb
 
 . . . 
'BeginEditIntro 
 Dim strSQL As String 
 Dim objRs1 As ADODB.Recordset 
 
 strSQL = "SELECT * FROM Shippers" 
 
 Set objRs1 = New ADODB.Recordset 
 
 objRs1.Open strSQL, GetNewConnection, adOpenStatic, _ 
 adLockBatchOptimistic, adCmdText 
 
 ' Disconnect the Recordset from the Connection object. 
 Set objRs1.ActiveConnection = Nothing 
'EndEditIntro 
 
 
 . . . 

```

The important change to the code involves setting the  **Connection** object's **CursorLocation** property equal to **adUseClient** in the GetNewConnection function (shown below), which indicates the use of a client cursor. For more information about the differences between client-side and server-side cursors, see[Chapter 8: Understanding Cursors and Locks](889356f9-53ca-3c46-6781-b37e1f065717.md).
The  **CursorLocation** property's **adUseClient** setting moves the location of the cursor from the data source (the SQL Server, in this case) to the location of the client code (the desktop workstation). This setting forces ADO to invoke the Client Cursor Engine for OLE DB on the client in order to create and manage the cursor.
You might also have noticed that the  **LockType** parameter of the **Open** method changed to **adLockBatchOptimistic**. This opens the cursor in batch mode. (The provider caches multiple changes and writes them to the underlying data source only when you call the **UpdateBatch** method.) Changes made to the **Recordset** will not be updated in the database until the **UpdateBatch** method is called.
Finally, the code in this chapter uses a modified version of the GetNewConnection function, introduced in Chapter 2. This version of the function now returns a client-side cursor. The function looks like this:



```vb
'BeginNewConnection 
Public Function GetNewConnection() As ADODB.Connection 
 Dim objConn1 As ADODB.Connection 
 Set objConn1 = New ADODB.Connection 
 
 strConnStr = "Provider=SQLOLEDB;Initial Catalog=Northwind;" &; _ 
 "Data Source=MySrvr;Integrated Security=SSPI;" 
 
 objConn1.ConnectionString = strConnStr 
 objConn1.CursorLocation = adUseClient 
 objConn1.Open 
 
 Set GetNewConnection = objConn1 
End Function 
'EndNewConnection 

```

