
# Recordset2.PercentPosition Property (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)


Sets or returns a value indicating the approximate location of the current record in the  **[Recordset](9774232c-e6da-175b-fc7f-ed2ab7908fa0.md)** object based on a percentage of the records in the **Recordset**.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **PercentPosition**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset2** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

To indicate or change the approximate position of the current record in a  **Recordset** object, you can check or set the **PercentPosition** property. When working with a dynaset- or snapshot-type **Recordset** object opened directly from a base table, first populate the **Recordset** object by moving to the last record before you set or check the **PercentPosition** property. If you use the **PercentPosition** property before fully populating the **Recordset** object, the amount of movement is relative to the number of records accessed as indicated by the **[RecordCount](77852966-11e9-1773-6e58-53927b84c03b.md)** property setting. You can move to the last record by using the **[MoveLast](32717786-c59c-ec22-666b-fc78e4265c5a.md)** method.




 **Note**  Using the  **PercentPosition** property to move the current record to a specific record in a **Recordset** object isn't recommended?the **[Bookmark](7366d550-2f72-ed10-b230-eb144a6f874b.md)** property is better suited for this task.

Once you set the  **PercentPosition** property to a value, the record at the approximate position corresponding to that value becomes current, and the **PercentPosition** property is reset to a value that reflects the approximate position of the current record. For example, if your **Recordset** object contains only five records, and you set its **PercentPosition** property value to 77, the value returned from the **PercentPosition** property may be 80, not 77.

The  **PercentPosition** property applies to all types of **Recordset** objects except for forward-only-type **Recordset** objects or **Recordset** objects opened from pass-through queries against remote databases.

You can use the  **PercentPosition** property with a scroll bar on a form or text box to indicate the location of the current record in a **Recordset** object.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example uses the  **PercentPosition** property to show the position of the current record pointer relative to the beginning of the **Recordset**.


```vb
Sub PercentPositionX() 
 
 Dim dbsNorthwind As Database 
 Dim rstProducts As Recordset2 
 Dim strFind As String 
 Dim strMessage As String 
 
 Set dbsNorthwind = OpenDatabase("Northwind.mdb") 
 ' PercentPosition only works with dynasets or snapshots. 
 Set rstProducts = dbsNorthwind.OpenRecordset( _ 
 "SELECT ProductName FROM Products " &; _ 
 "ORDER BY ProductName", dbOpenSnapshot) 
 
 With rstProducts 
 ' Populate the Recordset. 
 .MoveLast 
 .MoveFirst 
 
 Do While True 
 ' Show current record information and ask user 
 ' for input. 
 strMessage = "Product: " &; !ProductName &; vbCr &; _ 
 "The record pointer is " &; _ 
 Format(.PercentPosition, "##0.0") &; _ 
 "% from the " &; vbCr &; _ 
 "beginning of the Recordset." &; vbCr &; _ 
 "Please enter a character search string " &; _ 
 "for a product name." 
 strFind = Trim(InputBox(strMessage)) 
 If strFind = "" Then Exit Do 
 
 ' Try to find a record matching the search string. 
 .FindFirst "ProductName >= '" &; strFind &; "'" 
 If .NoMatch Then .MoveLast 
 Loop 
 
 .Close 
 End With 
 
 dbsNorthwind.Close 
 
End Sub
```

