
# Recordset2.AbsolutePosition Property (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)


Sets or returns the relative record number of a  **Recordset2** object's current record.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **AbsolutePosition**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset2** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use the  **AbsolutePosition** property to position the current record pointer to a specific record based on its ordinal position in a dynaset- or snapshot-type **Recordset2** object. You can also determine the current record number by checking the **AbsolutePosition** property setting.

Because the  **AbsolutePosition** property value is zero-based (that is, a setting of 0 refers to the first record in the **Recordset2** object), you cannot set it to a value greater than or equal to the number of populated records; doing so causes a trappable error. You can determine the number of populated records in the **Recordset2** object by checking the **RecordCount** property setting. The maximum allowable setting for the **AbsolutePosition** property is the value of the **RecordCount** property minus 1.

If there is no current record, as when there are no records in the  **Recordset2** object, **AbsolutePosition** returns -1. If the current record is deleted, the **AbsolutePosition** property value isn't defined, and a trappable error occurs if it's referenced. New records are added to the end of the sequence.

You shouldn't use this property as a surrogate record number. Bookmarks are still the recommended way of retaining and returning to a given position and are the only way to position the current record across all types of  **Recordset2** objects. In particular, the position of a record changes when one or more records preceding it are deleted. There is also no assurance that a record will have the same absolute position if the **Recordset2** object is re-created again because the order of individual records within a **Recordset** object isn't guaranteed unless it's created with an SQL statement by using an ORDER BY clause.


 **Note**  


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example uses the  **AbsolutePosition** property to track the progress of a loop that enumerates all the records of a **Recordset2**.


```vb
Sub AbsolutePositionX() 
 
   Dim dbsNorthwind As Database 
   Dim rstEmployees As Recordset2 
   Dim strMessage As String 
 
   Set dbsNorthwind = OpenDatabase("Northwind.mdb") 
   ' AbsolutePosition only works with dynasets or snapshots. 
   Set rstEmployees = _ 
      dbsNorthwind.OpenRecordset("Employees", _ 
      dbOpenSnapshot) 
 
   With rstEmployees 
      ' Populate Recordset. 
      .MoveLast 
      .MoveFirst 
 
      ' Enumerate Recordset. 
      Do While Not .EOF 
         ' Display current record information. Add 1 to  
         ' AbsolutePosition value because it is zero-based. 
         strMessage = "Employee: " &; !LastName &; vbCr &; _ 
            "(record " &; (.AbsolutePosition + 1) &; _ 
            " of " &; .RecordCount &; ")" 
         If MsgBox(strMessage, vbOKCancel) = vbCancel _ 
            Then Exit Do 
         .MoveNext 
      Loop 
 
      .Close 
   End With 
 
   dbsNorthwind.Close 
 
End Sub
```

