
# Error Object (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Contains details about data access errors that pertain to a single operation involving the provider.

## Remarks

Any operation involving ADO objects can generate one or more provider errors. As each error occurs, one or more  **Error** objects are placed in the[Errors](76c234b8-7fec-11c5-275e-864d5d880ee7.md) collection of the[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object. When another ADO operation generates an error, the **Errors** collection is cleared, and the new set of **Error** objects is placed in the **Errors** collection.


 **Note**  Each  **Error** object represents a specific provider error, not an ADO error. ADO errors are exposed to the run-time exception-handling mechanism. For example, in Microsoft Visual Basic, the occurrence of an ADO-specific error will trigger an **On Error** event and appear in the **Error** object. For a complete list of ADO errors, see the[ErrorValueEnum](2af99f32-6004-1225-367c-45d693f447b8.md) topic.

You can read an  **Error** object's properties to obtain specific details about each error, including the following:


- The [Description](31df5e36-641c-d213-31fc-6244e2983327.md) property, which contains the text of the error. This is the default property.
    
- The [Number](b5103af5-356b-ec74-cd62-86e59467d491.md) property, which contains the **Long** integer value of the error constant.
    
- The [Source](ffc6c77f-1494-d63a-d832-416faa4c6f07.md) property, which identifies the object that raised the error. This is particularly useful when you have several **Error** objects in the **Errors** collection following a request to a data source.
    
- The [SQLState](cf3b078a-849e-1ad2-cba4-a26160080868.md) and[NativeError](9f4d4064-5ee7-20f8-fd54-2cb2eae64d7b.md) properties, which provide information from SQL data sources.
    
When a provider error occurs, it is placed in the  **Errors** collection of the **Connection** object. ADO supports the return of multiple errors by a single ADO operation to allow for error information specific to the provider. To obtain this rich error information in an error handler, use the appropriate error-trapping features of the language or environment you are working with, then use nested loops to enumerate the properties of each **Error** object in the **Errors** collection.

 **Microsoft Visual Basic and VBScript Users** If there is no valid **Connection** object, you will need to retrieve error information from the **Error** object.

Just as providers do, ADO clears the  **OLE Error Info** object before making a call that could potentially generate a new provider error. However, the **Errors** collection on the **Connection** object is cleared and populated only when the provider generates a new error, or when the[Clear](5d51f42c-147b-1fcf-d05b-123e5714ecb7.md) method is called.

Some properties and methods return warnings that appear as  **Error** objects in the **Errors** collection but do not halt a program's execution. Before you call the[Resync](f594a200-56e6-fcf5-9b0a-900c56377f24.md), [UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md), or [CancelBatch](be7bf073-ed0b-e24c-7ec0-b7379236782a.md) methods on a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object; the[Open](1adaa17d-dfe1-22e0-3415-720516d138f8.md) method on a **Connection** object; or set the[Filter](5abc528a-a6ee-34de-5d44-a3249194b0a0.md) property on a **Recordset** object, call the **Clear** method on the **Errors** collection. That way, you can read the[Count](b59f9581-ffd1-471d-44fa-3c1bb812e140.md) property of the **Errors** collection to test for returned warnings.

