
# BeginTransComplete, CommitTransComplete, and RollbackTransComplete Events (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



These events will be called after the associated operation on the [Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object finishes executing.

-  **BeginTransComplete** is called after the[BeginTrans](9a0415f0-9424-8d1c-4779-92e932292d46.md) operation.
    
-  **CommitTransComplete** is called after the[CommitTrans](9a0415f0-9424-8d1c-4779-92e932292d46.md) operation.
    
-  **RollbackTransComplete** is called after the[RollbackTrans](9a0415f0-9424-8d1c-4779-92e932292d46.md) operation.
    

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **BeginTransComplete** _TransactionLevel_, _pError_, _adStatus_, _pConnection_

 **CommitTransComplete** _pError_, _adStatus_, _pConnection_

 **RollbackTransComplete** _pError_, _adStatus_, _pConnection_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _TransactionLevel_
    
- A  **Long** value that contains the new transaction level of the **BeginTrans** that caused this event.
    
-  _pError_
    
- An [Error](97e478bf-8b25-03a8-9358-abba5069cba3.md) object. It describes the error that occurred if the value of EventStatusEnum is **adStatusErrorsOccurred**; otherwise it is not set.
    
-  _adStatus_
    
- [EventStatusEnum](ae1711bc-2af5-04fd-7d8c-222d8afc9d3d.md)
    
    These events can prevent subsequent notifications by setting this parameter to  **adStatusUnwantedEvent** before the event returns.
    
-  _pConnection_
    
- The  **Connection** object for which this event occurred.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

In Visual C++, multiple  **Connections** can share the same event handling method. The method uses the returned **Connection** object to determine which object caused the event.

If the [Attributes](4cc1f036-606e-7d4b-d270-af374e9d99fa.md) property is set to **adXactCommitRetaining** or **adXactAbortRetaining**, a new transaction starts after committing or rolling back a transaction. Use the **BeginTransComplete** event to ignore all but the first transaction start event.

