
# ShowToolbar Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **ShowToolbar** action to display or hide a group of commands on the **Add-Ins** tab.


 **Note**  The  **ShowToolbar** action does not affect shortcut menus.


 **Note**  This action will not be allowed if the database is not trusted. For more information about enabling macros, see the links in the  **See Also** section of this article.


## Setting

The  **ShowToolbar** action has the following arguments.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Toolbar Name**|The name of the command group on the  **Add-Ins** tab you want to display or hide. The **Toolbar Name** box in the **Action Arguments** section of the Macro Builder Pane shows all the available groups that can be affected by this action. This is a required argument. If you run a macro containing the **ShowToolbar** action in a library database, Access first looks for the group with this name in the library database, and then in the current database.|
|**Show**|Specifies whether to display or hide the group and in which views to display or hide it. The default is  **Yes** (show the group at all times). You can select **Yes** to display the group at all times, **Where Appropriate** to display the group only when the appropriate form or report is active, or **No** to hide the group at all times.|

## Remarks

You can use this action in a macro with conditional expressions to display or hide a group depending on certain conditions.

If you want to show a particular group on just one form or report, you can set the  **OnActivate** property of the form or report to the name of a macro that contains a **ShowToolbar** action to show the group. Then set the **OnDeactivate** property of the form or report to the name of a macro that contains a **ShowToolbar** action to hide the group.

The built-in toolbars are not available to display or hide by using this action if you set the  **AllowBuiltInToolbars** property to **False** (0) in a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module, or if you set the **Allow Built-in Toolbars** option to **False** in VBA by using the **SetOption** method.

To run the  **ShowToolbar** action in a VBA module, use the **ShowToolbar** method of the **DoCmd** object.

