
# WillExecute Event (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



The  **WillExecute** event is called just before a pending command executes on a connection.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **WillExecute** _Source_, _CursorType_, _LockType_, _Options_, _adStatus_, _pCommand_, _pRecordset_, _pConnection_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Source_
    
- A  **String** that contains an SQL command or a stored procedure name.
    
-  _CursorType_
    
- A [CursorTypeEnum](7c5fa8b2-85ea-a0a7-41f1-a78650aced3e.md) that contains the type of cursor for the **Recordset** that will be opened. With this parameter, you can change the cursor to any type during a **Recordset**[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md) operation. _CursorType_ will be ignored for any other operation.
    
-  _LockType_
    
- A [LockTypeEnum](966b4952-5591-4a99-82d5-99cb9ae3fc72.md) that contains the lock type for the **Recordset** that will be opened. With this parameter, you can change the lock to any type during a **Recordset** **Open** operation. _LockType_ will be ignored for any other operation.
    
-  _Options_
    
- A  **Long** value that indicates options that can be used to execute the command or open the **Recordset**.
    
-  _adStatus_
    
- [EventStatusEnum](ae1711bc-2af5-04fd-7d8c-222d8afc9d3d.md)
    
    Before this event returns, set this parameter to  **adStatusUnwantedEvent** to prevent subsequent notifications, or **adStatusCancel** to request cancellation of the operation that caused this event.
    
-  _pCommand_
    
- The [Command](64f4ef03-f858-c004-b891-0c96d13a5e6e.md) object for which this event notification applies.
    
-  _pRecordset_
    
- The [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object for which this event notification applies.
    
-  _pConnection_
    
- The [Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object for which this event notification applies.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

A  **WillExecute** event may occur due to a **Connection.**[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/af190bd9-7167-df59-29ca-a9a86c4957fd%28Office.15%29.aspx),  **Command.**[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/01812c8c-403e-4428-23f6-86bda747bd0e%28Office.15%29.aspx), or  **Recordset.**[Open](87ef19a4-28e1-dec7-ed33-4ae500b9c460.md) method The _pConnection_ parameter should always contain a valid reference to a **Connection** object. If the event is due to **Connection.Execute**, the _pRecordset_ and _pCommand_ parameters are set to **Nothing**. If the event is due to **Recordset.Open**, the _pRecordset_ parameter will reference the **Recordset** object and the _pCommand_ parameter is set to **Nothing**. If the event is due to **Command.Execute**, the _pCommand_ parameter will reference the **Command** object and the _pRecordset_ parameter is set to **Nothing**.

 **WillExecute** allows you to examine and modify the pending execution parameters. This event may return a request that the pending command be canceled.

