
# RunSavedImportExport Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **RunSavedImportExport** action to run a saved import or export specification that you created by using the Import Wizard or the Export Wizard.


 **Note**  This action will not be allowed if the database is not trusted. For more information about enabling macros, see the links in the  **See Also** section of this article.


## Setting

The  **RunSavedImportExport** action has the following argument.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Saved Import Export Name**|Select the name of a saved import or export specification from the drop-down list.|

## Remarks


- This macro action has the same effect as performing the following procedure in Access:
    
      1. On the  **External Data** tab, click either **Saved Imports** or **Saved Exports**.
    
  2. In the  **Manage Data Tasks** dialog box, on the **Saved Imports** or **Saved Exports** tab (depending on your choice in the preceding step), click the specification that you want to run.
    
  3. Click  **Run**. 
    
- Before running the  **RunSavedImportExport** action, make sure that the source and destination files exist, the source data is ready for importing, and that the operation will not accidentally overwrite any data in your destination file.
    
- Find links to more information about saving and running import and export specifications in the  **See Also** section.
    
- If the saved import or export specification you choose for the  **Saved Import Export Name** argument is deleted after the macro is created, Access displays the following error message when the macro is run: **The specification with the specified index does not exist. Specify a different index. '** _ **specification name**_ **'.**
    
