
# Open Method (ADO Record)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Opens an existing [Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) object, or creates a new item represented by the **Record** (such as a file or directory).

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **Open** _ Source_, _ActiveConnection_, _Mode_, _CreateOptions_, _Options_, _UserName_, _Password_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _Source_
    
- Optional. A  **Variant** that may represent the URL of the entity to be represented by this **Record** object, a **Command**, an open[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) or another **Record** object, a string containing a SQL SELECT statement or a table name.
    
-  _ActiveConnection_
    
- Optional. A  **Variant** that represents the connect string or open[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object.
    
-  _Mode_
    
- Optional. A [ConnectModeEnum](a15aa733-f899-5fe9-e705-67a4301706d1.md) value, whose default value is **adModeUnknown**, that specifies the access mode for the resultant **Record** object.
    
-  _CreateOptions_
    
- Optional. A [RecordCreateOptionsEnum](153dc8ff-680c-1482-d386-4c4b33ffc589.md) value, whose default value is **adFailIfNotExists**, that specifies whether an existing file or directory should be opened, or a new file or directory should be created. If set to the default value, the access mode is obtained from the[Mode](62086f4f-8624-16c4-dae1-a17475d1864d.md) property. This parameter is ignored when the _Source_ parameter doesnt contain a URL.
    
-  _Options_
    
- Optional. A [RecordOpenOptionsEnum](44a69719-0789-a084-fb96-21468e270205.md) value, whose default value is **adOpenRecordUnspecified**, that specifies options for opening the **Record**. These values may be combined.
    
-  _UserName_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains the user ID that, if needed, authorizes access to _Source_.
    
-  _Password_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains the password that, if needed, verifies _UserName_.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

 _Source_ may be:


- A URL. If the protocol for the URL is http, then the Internet Provider will be invoked by default. If the URL points to a node that contains an executable script (such as an .ASP page), then a  **Record** containing the source rather than the executed contents is opened by default. Use the _Options_ argument to modify this behavior.
    
- A  **Record** object. A **Record** object opened from another **Record** will clone the original **Record** object.
    
- A  **Command** object. The opened **Record** object represents the single row returned by executing the **Command**. If the results contain more than a single row, the contents of the first row are placed in the record and an error may be added to the **Errors** collection.
    
- A SQL SELECT statement. The opened  **Record** object represents the single row returned by executing the contents of the string. If the results contain more than a single row, the contents of the first row are placed in the record and an error may be added to the **Errors** collection.
    
- A table name.
    
If the  **Record** object represents an entity that cannot be accessed with a URL (for example, a row of a **Recordset** derived from a database), then the values of both the[ParentURL](ec7ec476-6f9e-8486-fe02-74995975df5c.md) property and the field accessed with the **adRecordURL** constant are null.


 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).

