
# AddNew Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection0)
[Parameters](#sectionSection1)
[Remarks](#sectionSection2)


Creates a new record for an updatable [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _recordset_. **AddNew** _ FieldList_, _Values_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>


-  _recordset_
    
- A  **Recordset** object.
    
-  _FieldList_
    
- Optional. A single name, or an array of names or ordinal positions of the fields in the new record.
    
-  _Values_
    
- Optional. A single value, or an array of values for the fields in the new record. If  _Fieldlist_ is an array, _Values_ must also be an array with the same number of members; otherwise, an error occurs. The order of field names must match the order of field values in each array.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Use the  **AddNew** method to create and initialize a new record. Use the[Supports](2b4062ce-44df-4e84-1ce9-d6618c10c2af.md) method with **adAddNew** (a[CursorOptionEnum](3c118c08-02f2-5290-1cef-29e97c35fddc.md) value) to verify whether you can add records to the current **Recordset** object.

After you call the  **AddNew** method, the new record becomes the current record and remains current after you call the[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) method. Since the new record is appended to the **Recordset**, a call to **MoveNext** following the Update will move past the end of the **Recordset**, making **EOF** True. If the **Recordset** object does not support bookmarks, you may not be able to access the new record once you move to another record. Depending on your cursor type, you may need to call the[Requery](1062d907-979f-020a-b2ed-94e11c0e7d08.md) method to make the new record accessible.

If you call  **AddNew** while editing the current record or while adding a new record, ADO calls the **Update** method to save any changes and then creates the new record.

The behavior of the  **AddNew** method depends on the updating mode of the **Recordset** object and whether you pass the _Fieldlist_ and _Values_ arguments.

In  _immediate update mode_ (in which the provider writes changes to the underlying data source once you call the **Update** method), calling the **AddNew** method without arguments sets the[EditMode](28ca8f14-abee-ad20-9c16-11bb36b487e4.md) property to **adEditAdd** (an[EditModeEnum](4da0e504-aca2-b769-04a2-0df687fa4422.md) value). The provider caches any field value changes locally. Calling the **Update** method posts the new record to the database and resets the **EditMode** property to **adEditNone** (an **EditModeEnum** value). If you pass the _Fieldlist_ and _Values_ arguments, ADO immediately posts the new record to the database (no **Update** call is necessary); the **EditMode** property value does not change ( **adEditNone** ).

In  _batch update mode_ (in which the provider caches multiple changes and writes them to the underlying data source only when you call the[UpdateBatch](69e72a65-b637-36fd-d09f-7f81050f71ad.md) method), calling the **AddNew** method without arguments sets the **EditMode** property to **adEditAdd**. The provider caches any field value changes locally. Calling the **Update** method adds the new record to the current **Recordset** and resets the **EditMode** property to **adEditNone**, but the provider does not post the changes to the underlying database until you call the **UpdateBatch** method. If you pass the _Fieldlist_ and _Values_ arguments, ADO sends the new record to the provider for storage in a cache; you need to call the **UpdateBatch** method to post the new record to the underlying database.

