
# WillChangeField and FieldChangeComplete Events (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



The  **WillChangeField** event is called before a pending operation changes the value of one or more[Field](1dbd535e-48ad-a5c8-a1b2-6776c1e3e19d.md) objects in the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md). The  **FieldChangeComplete** event is called after the value of one or more **Field** objects has changed.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **WillChangeField** _cFields_, _Fields_, _adStatus_, _pRecordset_

 **FieldChangeComplete** _cFields_, _Fields_, _pError_, _adStatus_, _pRecordset_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _cFields_
    
- A  **Long** that indicates the number of **Field** objects in _Fields_.
    
-  _Fields_
    
- For  **WillChangeField**, the _Fields_ parameter is an array of **Variants** that contains **Field** objects with the original values. For **FieldChangeComplete**, the _Fields_ parameter is an array of **Variants** that contains **Field** objects with the changed values.
    
-  _pError_
    
- An [Error](97e478bf-8b25-03a8-9358-abba5069cba3.md) object. It describes the error that occurred if the value of _adStatus_ is **adStatusErrorsOccurred**; otherwise it is not set.
    
-  _adStatus_
    
- [EventStatusEnum](ae1711bc-2af5-04fd-7d8c-222d8afc9d3d.md)
    
    When  **WillChangeField** is called, this parameter is set to **adStatusOK** if the operation that caused the event was successful. It is set to **adStatusCantDeny** if this event cannot request cancellation of the pending operation.
    
    When  **FieldChangeComplete** is called, this parameter is set to **adStatusOK** if the operation that caused the event was successful, or to **adStatusErrorsOccurred** if the operation failed.
    
    Before  **WillChangeField** returns, set this parameter to **adStatusCancel** to request cancellation of the pending operation.
    
    Before  **FieldChangeComplete** returns, set this parameter to **adStatusUnwantedEvent** to prevent subsequent notifications.
    
-  _pRecordset_
    
- A  **Recordset** object. The **Recordset** for which this event occurred.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

A  **WillChangeField** or **FieldChangeComplete** event may occur when setting the[Value](ff21d122-98e3-2b48-d92f-e696b8079fc5.md) property and calling the[Update](fc88cab6-c379-bb4f-530c-da08107924e0.md) method with field and value array parameters.

