
# Relation.CreateField Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Creates a new  **[Field](47282ce2-9b49-ccf9-ad37-c4bb25cfd037.md)** object (Microsoft Access workspaces only).


## Syntax

 _expression_. **CreateField**( ** _Name_**, ** _Type_**, ** _Size_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Relation** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Name_|Optional|**Variant**|A String that uniquely names the new  **Field** object. See the **[Name](5f4a95cd-63a3-aedf-df64-793158b2283d.md)** property for details on valid **Field** names.|
| _Type_|Optional|**Variant**|Argument not supported for this object.|
| _Size_|Optional|**Variant**|Argument not supported for this object.|

### Return Value

Field


## Remarks

You can use the  **CreateField** method to create a new field, as well as specify the name, data type, and size of the field. If you omit one or more of the optional parts when you use **CreateField**, you can use an appropriate assignment statement to set or reset the corresponding property before you append the new object to a collection. After you append the new object, you can alter some but not all of its property settings. See the individual property topics for more details.

The  _type_ and _size_ arguments apply only to **Field** objects in a **TableDef** object. These arguments are ignored when a **Field** object is associated with an **Index** or **Relation** object.

If  _name_ refers to an object that is already a member of the collection, a run-time error occurs when you use the **[Append](a0e553ba-6a57-09af-3436-4f6ca3cbe561.md)** method.

To remove a  **Field** object from a **Fields** collection, use the **[Delete](a8e249e7-7526-3eff-a5cf-70cab2081970.md)** method on the collection. You can't delete a **Field** object from a **TableDef** object's **Fields** collection after you create an index that references the field.

