
# ApplyFilter Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Setting](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)
[About the Contributors](#AboutContributors)


You can use the  **ApplyFilter** action to apply a filter, a query, or an SQL WHERE clause to a table, form, or report to restrict or sort the records in the table, or the records from the underlying table or query of the form or report. For reports, you can use this action only in a macro specified by the report's **OnOpen** event property.

 **Note**  You can use this action to apply an SQL WHERE clause only when applying a server filter. A server filter cannot be applied to a stored procedure's record source.


## Setting
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

The  **ApplyFilter** action has the following arguments.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
| _Filter Name_|The name of a filter or query that restricts or sorts the records of the table, form, or report. You can enter the name of either an existing query or a filter that has been saved as a query in the  **Filter Name** box in the **Action Arguments** section of the **Macro Builder** pane.
 **Note**  When you are using this action to apply a server filter, the  _Filter Name_ argument must be blank.

|
| _Where Condition_|A valid SQL WHERE clause (without the word WHERE) or an expression that restricts the records of the table, form, or report.
 **Note**  In a  _Where Condition_ argument expression, the left side of the expression typically contains a field name from the underlying table or query for the form or report. The right side of the expression typically contains the criteria you want to apply to this field to restrict or sort the records. For example, the criteria can be the name of a control on another form that contains the value you want the records in the first form to match. The name of the control should be fully qualified, for example:

 **Forms**! _formname_ ! _controlname_ Field names should be surrounded by double quotation marks and string literals should be surrounded by single quotation marks. The maximum length of the _Where Condition_ argument is 255 characters. If you need to enter a longer SQL WHERE clause, use the **ApplyFilter** method of the **DoCmd** object in a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module. You can enter SQL WHERE clause statements of up to 32,768 characters in VBA.|

 **Note**  You can use the  _Filter Name_ argument if you have already defined a filter that provides the appropriate data. You can use the _Where Condition_ argument to enter the restriction criteria directly. If you use both arguments, Microsoft Office Access 2007 applies the WHERE clause to the results of the filter. You must use one or both arguments.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can apply a filter or query to a form in Form view or Datasheet view.

The filter and WHERE condition you apply become the setting of the form's or report's  **Filter** or **ServerFilter** property.

For tables and forms, this action is similar to clicking  **Apply Filter/Sort** or **Apply Server Filter** on the **Records** menu. The menu command applies the most recently created filter to the table or form, whereas the **ApplyFilter** action applies a specified filter or query.

In an Access database, if you point to  **Filter** on the **Records** menu and then click **Advanced Filter/Sort** after running the **ApplyFilter** action, the Advanced Filter/Sort window shows the filter criteria you have selected with this action.

To remove a filter and display all of the records for a table or form in an Office Access 2007 database, you can use the  **ShowAllRecords** action or the **Remove Filter/Sort** command on the **Records** menu. To remove a filter in an Access project (.adp), you can return to the Server Filter By Form window and remove all filter criteria and then click **Apply Server Filter** on the **Records** menu on the toolbar, or set the **ServerFilterByForm** property to **False** (0).

When you save a table or form, Access saves any filter currently defined in that object, but won't apply the filter automatically the next time the object is opened (although it will automatically apply any sort you applied to the object before it was saved). If you want to apply a filter automatically when a form is first opened, specify a macro containing the  **ApplyFilter** action or an event procedure containing the **ApplyFilter** method of the **DoCmd** object as the **OnOpen** event property setting of the form. You can also apply a filter by using the **OpenForm** or **OpenReport** action, or their corresponding methods. To apply a filter automatically when a table is first opened, you can open the table by using a macro containing the **OpenTable** action, followed immediately by the **ApplyFilter** action.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example shows how to use the  **ApplyFilter** action to filter the frmFoods form as it is opened.

 **Sample code provided by:** The[Microsoft Access 2010 Programmer's Reference](http://www.wrox.com/WileyCDA/WroxTitle/Access-2010-Programmer-s-Reference.productCd-0470591668.mdl)




```text
OpenForm
    Form Name sfrmFoods
    View Form
    Filter Name
    Where Condition
    Data Mode
    Window Mode Normal

ApplyFilter
    Filter Name
    Where Condition=[display_name] Link "*cheese*"
    Control Name
```


## About the Contributors
<a name="AboutContributors"> </a>

Wrox Press is driven by the Programmer to Programmer philosophy. Wrox books are written by programmers for programmers, and the Wrox brand means authoritative solutions to real-world programming problems. 

