
# CreateParameter Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Return Value](#sectionSection2)
[Parameters](#sectionSection3)
[Remarks](#sectionSection4)



Creates a new [Parameter](7577598e-3d0c-30c6-5f24-1cfe98791798.md) object with the specified properties.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 **Set** _ parameter_ = _command_. **CreateParameter** ( _Name_, _Type_, _Direction_, _Size_, _Value_ )


## Return Value
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Returns a  **Parameter** object.


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>


-  _Name_
    
- Optional. A  **String** value that contains the name of the **Parameter** object.
    
-  _Type_
    
- Optional. A [DataTypeEnum](a8ab7616-552f-ed5f-ed55-95254cfb374a.md) value that specifies the data type of the **Parameter** object.
    
-  _Direction_
    
- Optional. A [ParameterDirectionEnum](73a97522-010e-d8f4-1a30-15df2469cad4.md) value that specifies the type of **Parameter** object.
    
-  _Size_
    
- Optional. A  **Long** value that specifies the maximum length for the parameter value in characters or bytes.
    
-  _Value_
    
- Optional. A  **Variant** that specifies the value for the **Parameter** object.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection4"> </a>

Use the  **CreateParameter** method to create a new **Parameter** object with a specified name, type, direction, size, and value. Any values you pass in the arguments are written to the corresponding **Parameter** properties.

This method does not automatically append the  **Parameter** object to the **Parameters** collection of a[Command](64f4ef03-f858-c004-b891-0c96d13a5e6e.md) object. This lets you set additional properties whose values ADO will validate when you append the **Parameter** object to the collection.

If you specify a variable-length data type in the  _Type_ argument, you must either pass a _Size_ argument or set the[Size](24596b5c-b1cc-e97e-68b6-8ff53baf150b.md) property of the **Parameter** object before appending it to the **Parameters** collection; otherwise, an error occurs.

If you specify a numeric data type ( **adNumeric** or **adDecimal** ) in the _Type_ argument, then you must also set the[NumericScale](51b232d2-5bfd-521c-f4e9-65655ecc7c70.md) and[Precision](c9d54d78-d5a5-caf8-d635-259d1fcc0595.md) properties.

