
# Seek Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Parameters](#sectionSection2)
[Remarks](#sectionSection3)



Searches the index of a [Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) to quickly locate the row that matches the specified values, and changes the current row position to that row.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _recordset_. **Seek** _KeyValues_, _SeekOption_


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


-  _KeyValues_
    
- An array of  **Variant** values. An index consists of one or more columns and the array contains a value to compare against each corresponding column.
    
-  _SeekOption_
    
- A [SeekEnum](a0574809-db2d-8759-18cc-fb1cf776e8fd.md) value that specifies the type of comparison to be made between the columns of the index and the corresponding _KeyValues_.
    

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

Use the  **Seek** method in conjunction with the[Index](4cc00521-dcb4-19b2-2174-6e0e9bd42e62.md) property if the underlying provider supports indexes on the **Recordset** object. Use the[Supports](2b4062ce-44df-4e84-1ce9-d6618c10c2af.md) **(adSeek)** method to determine whether the underlying provider supports **Seek**, and the **Supports(adIndex)** method to determine whether the provider supports indexes. (For example, the[OLE DB Provider for Microsoft Jet](4a210d72-8c90-aa7c-4621-1a555a30a2d2.md) supports **Seek** and **Index**.)

If  **Seek** does not find the desired row, no error occurs, and the row is positioned at the end of the **Recordset**. Set the **Index** property to the desired index before executing this method.

This method is supported only with server-side cursors. Seek is not supported when the  **Recordset** object's[CursorLocation](8a048bd4-ae25-a555-1c07-14364b7e6560.md) property value is **adUseClient**.

This method can only be used when the  **Recordset** object has been opened with a[CommandTypeEnum](9ad8f155-88a0-00eb-2855-1e1a2a677437.md) value of **adCmdTableDirect**.

