
# Recordset2.ValidationRule Property (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Sets or returns a value that validates the data in a field as it's changed or added to a table (Microsoft Access workspaces only).Read/write  **String**.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **ValidationRule**

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Recordset2** object.


## Remarks

The settings or return values is a  **String** that describes a comparison in the form of an SQL WHERE clause without the WHERE reserved word. For an object not yet appended to the **Fields** collection, this property is read/write.

The  **ValidationRule** property determines whether or not a field contains valid data. If the data is not valid, a trappable run-time error occurs. The returned error message is the text of the **ValidationText** property, if specified, or the text of the expression specified by **ValidationRule**.

For a  **Recordset** object, use of the **ValidationRule** property is read-only. For a **TableDef** object, use of the **ValidationRule** property depends on the status of the **TableDef** object, as the following table shows.



|**TableDef**|**Usage**|
|:-----|:-----|
|Base table|Read/write|
|Linked table|Read-only|
Validation is supported only for databases that use the Microsoft Access database engine.

The string expression specified by the  **ValidationRule** property of a **Field** object can refer only to that **Field**. The expression can't refer to user-defined functions, SQL aggregate functions, or queries. To set a **Field** object's **ValidationRule** property when its **ValidateOnSet** property setting is **True**, the expression must successfully parse (with the field name as an implied operand) and evaluate to **True**. If its **ValidateOnSet** property setting is **False**, the **ValidationRule** property setting is ignored.

The  **ValidationRule** property of a **Recordset** or **TableDef** object can refer to multiple fields in that object. The restrictions noted earlier in this topic for the **Field** object apply.

For a table-type  **Recordset** object, the **ValidationRule** property inherits the **ValidationRule** property setting of the **TableDef** object that you use to create the table-type **Recordset** object.


 **Note**  If you set the property to a string concatenated with a non-integer value, and the system parameters specify a non-U.S. decimal character such as a comma (for example,  `strRule = "PRICE > " &; lngPrice`, and  `lngPrice = 125,50`), an error will result when your code attempts to validate any data. This is because during concatenation, the number will be converted to a string using your system's default decimal character, and Microsoft Access SQL only accepts U.S. decimal characters.

