
# Stream Object (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Represents a stream of binary data or text.

## Remarks

In tree-structured hierarchies such as a file system or an e-mail system, a [Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) may have a default binary stream of bits associated with it that contains the contents of the file or the e-mail. A **Stream** object can be used to manipulate fields or records containing these streams of data. A **Stream** object can be obtained in these ways:


- From a URL pointing to an object (typically a file) containing binary or text data. This object can be a simple document, a  **Record** object representing a structured document, or a folder.
    
- By opening the default  **Stream** object associated with a **Record** object. You can obtain the default stream associated with a **Record** object when the **Record** is opened, to eliminate a round-trip just to open the stream.
    
- By instantiating a  **Stream** object. These **Stream** objects can be used to store data for the purposes of your application. Unlike a **Stream** associated with a URL, or the default **Stream** of a **Record**, an instantiated **Stream** has no association with an underlying source by default.
    
With the methods and properties of a  **Stream** object, you can do the following:


- Open a  **Stream** object from a **Record** or URL with the[Open](fa2e6aaa-e9f5-009c-f3a0-050a00abf9b0.md) method.
    
- Close a  **Stream** with the[Close](26a7cced-ebeb-70be-f5de-96a35711bc37.md) method.
    
- Input bytes or text to a  **Stream** with the[Write](cabe4581-409f-7f05-bd59-d495bfb2c6fd.md) and[WriteText](1ca2d9d5-11f4-d088-6fc3-53240208bb09.md) methods.
    
- Read bytes from the  **Stream** with the[Read](91c3ad34-f891-5be0-1fc1-c5c8a2ff07a4.md) and[ReadText](08f5bac4-dccd-696c-09a7-e1ba0cb38d79.md) methods.
    
- Write any  **Stream** data still in the ADO buffer to the underlying object with the[Flush](c167e3b1-c133-ce45-6cee-5a1280a1568f.md) method.
    
- Copy the contents of a  **Stream** to another **Stream** with the[CopyTo](1c1ab950-51f7-7ecc-ccd8-e689db02f06a.md) method.
    
- Control how lines are read from the source file with the [SkipLine](419c24c3-6b84-eed0-5884-f2dcd485dc3d.md) method and the[LineSeparator](9f1323cd-d4ed-2bfa-554b-faebab529548.md) property.
    
- Determine the end of stream position with the [EOS](97cd23ef-cca8-4dcc-2641-082a0e1b853c.md) property and[SetEOS](d438eecf-7ab3-a07d-b6d5-8816db4aae7c.md) method.
    
- Save and restore data in files with the [SaveToFile](db0fd95e-8ef3-af87-5346-8f8713153ca7.md) and[LoadFromFile](33fd543f-bd24-9199-7540-2889b69221c8.md) methods.
    
- Specify the character set used for storing the  **Stream** with the[Charset](454f664e-6d62-eec9-487d-882c2f9503b0.md) property.
    
- Halt an asynchronous  **Stream** operation with the[Cancel](747edc04-a5cc-3631-2d0b-82e7e41a76b7.md) method.
    
- Determine the number of bytes in a  **Stream** with the[Size](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/deb84313-36d1-fa49-e4cd-daecab96f343%28Office.15%29.aspx) property.
    
- Control the current position within a  **Stream** with the[Position](a07c9197-673b-ddf2-fca9-b0b54fbd67b4.md) property.
    
- Determine the type of data in a  **Stream** with the[Type](43872c74-51bf-47ae-6bdc-55d25b0dc84a.md) property.
    
- Determine the current state of the  **Stream** (closed, open, or executing) with the[State](ade0a50c-e2d8-23ac-4ea9-b012fedcd5db.md) property.
    
- Specify the access mode for the  **Stream** with the[Mode](62086f4f-8624-16c4-dae1-a17475d1864d.md) property.
    

 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).

