
# Connection.Execute Method (DAO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

Runs an action query or executes an SQL statement on the specified object.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **Execute**( ** _Query_**, ** _Options_** )

 _expression_ A variable that represents a **Connection** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| _Query_|Required|**String**|A  **String** that is an SQL statement or the **Name** property value of a **QueryDef** object.|
| _Options_|Optional|**Variant**| A constant or combination of constants that determines the data integrity characteristics of the query, as specified in Settings.|

## Remarks

You can use the following  **[RecordsetOptionEnum](3a9d8664-dcb6-cb60-7cf6-e229eb699ef1.md)** constants for _options_.



|**Constant**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**dbDenyWrite**|Denies write permission to other users (Microsoft Access workspaces only).|
|**dbInconsistent**|(Default) Executes inconsistent updates (Microsoft Access workspaces only).|
|**dbConsistent**|Executes consistent updates (Microsoft Access workspaces only).|
|**dbSQLPassThrough**|Executes an SQL pass-through query. Setting this option passes the SQL statement to an ODBC database for processing (Microsoft Access workspaces only).|
|**dbFailOnError**|Rolls back updates if an error occurs (Microsoft Access workspaces only).|
|**dbSeeChanges**|Generates a run-time error if another user is changing data you are editing (Microsoft Access workspaces only).|
|**dbRunAsync**|Executes the query asynchronously (ODBCDirect Connection and QueryDef objects only).|
|**dbExecDirect**|Executes the statement without first calling SQLPrepare ODBC API function (ODBCDirect Connection and QueryDef objects only).|

 **Note**  ODBCDirect workspaces are not supported in Microsoft Access 2013. Use ADO if you want to access external data sources without using the Microsoft Access database engine.




 **Note**  The constants  **dbConsistent** and **dbInconsistent** are mutually exclusive. You can use one or the other, but not both in a given instance of **OpenRecordset**. Using both **dbConsistent** and **dbInconsistent** causes an error.

The  **Execute** method is valid only for action queries. If you use **Execute** with another type of query, an error occurs. Because an action query doesn't return any records, **Execute** doesn't return a **Recordset**. (Executing an SQL pass-through query in an ODBCDirect workspace will not return an error if a **Recordset** isn't returned.)

Use the  **RecordsAffected** property of the **Connection**, **Database**, or **QueryDef** object to determine the number of records affected by the most recent **Execute** method. For example, **RecordsAffected** contains the number of records deleted, updated, or inserted when executing an action query. When you use the **Execute** method to run a query, the **RecordsAffected** property of the **QueryDef** object is set to the number of records affected.

In a Microsoft Access workspace, if you provide a syntactically correct SQL statement and have the appropriate permissions, the  **Execute** method won't fail — even if not a single row can be modified or deleted. Therefore, always use the **dbFailOnError** option when using the **Execute** method to run an update or delete query. This option generates a run-time error and rolls back all successful changes if any of the records affected are locked and can't be updated or deleted.

In earlier versions of the Microsoft Jet database engine, SQL statements were automatically embedded in implicit transactions. If part of a statement executed with  **dbFailOnError** failed, the entire statement would be rolled back. To improve performance, these implicit transactions were removed starting with version 3.5. If you are updating older DAO code, be sure to consider using explicit transactions around **Execute** statements.

For best performance in a Microsoft Access workspace, especially in a multiuser environment, nest the  **Execute** method inside a transaction. Use the **BeginTrans** method on the current **Workspace** object, then use the **Execute** method, and complete the transaction by using the **CommitTrans** method on the **Workspace**. This saves changes on disk and frees any locks placed while the query is running.

