
# CancelEvent Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Setting](#sectionSection0)
[Remarks](#sectionSection1)
[Example](#sectionSection2)


You can use the  **CancelEvent** action to cancel the event that caused Access to run the macro containing this action. The macro name is the setting of an event property such as **BeforeUpdate**, **OnOpen**, **OnUnload**, or **OnPrint**.

## Setting
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

The  **CancelEvent** action doesn't have any arguments.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

In a form, you typically use the  **CancelEvent** action in a validation macro with the **BeforeUpdate** event property. When a user enters data in a control or record, Access runs the macro before adding the data to the database. If the data fails the validation conditions in the macro, the **CancelEvent** action cancels the update process before it starts.

Often, you use this action with the  **MessageBox** action to indicate that the data has failed the validation conditions and to provide helpful information about the kind of data that should be entered.

The following events can be canceled by the  **CancelEvent** action.


||||
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**ApplyFilter**|**Dirty**|**MouseDown**|
|**BeforeDelConfirm**|**Exit**|**NoData**|
|**BeforeInsert**|**Filter**|**Open**|
|**BeforeUpdate**|**Format**|**Print**|
|**DblClick**|**KeyPress**|**Unload**|
|**Delete**|||

 **Note**  You can use the  **CancelEvent** action with the **MouseDown** event only to cancel the event that occurs when you right-click an object.

If a control's  **OnDblClick** event property setting specifies a macro containing the **CancelEvent** action, the action cancels the **DblClick** event.

For events that can be canceled, the default behavior for the event (that is, what Access typically does when the event occurs) occurs after the macro for the event runs. This enables you to cancel the default behavior. For example, when you double-click a word that the insertion point is on in a text box, Access normally selects the word. You can cancel this default behavior in the macro for the  **DblClick** event and perform some other action, such as opening a form containing information about the data in the text box. For events that can't be canceled, the default behavior occurs before the macro runs.


 **Note**  If a form's  **OnUnload** event property specifies a macro that carries out a **CancelEvent** action, you won't be able to close the form. You must either correct the condition that caused the **CancelEvent** action to be carried out or open the macro and delete the **CancelEvent** action. If the form is a modal form, you won't be able to open the macro.

To carry out the  **CancelEvent** action in a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module, use the **CancelEvent** method of the **DoCmd** object.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

 Validate data by using a macro

The following validation macro checks the postal codes entered in a Suppliers form. It shows the use of the  **StopMacro**, **MessageBox**, **CancelEvent**, and **GoToControl** actions. A conditional expression checks the country/region and postal code entered in a record on the form. If the postal code is not in the right format for the country/region, the macro displays a message box and cancels saving the record. It then returns you to the Postal Code control, where you can correct the error. This macro should be attached to the **BeforeUpdate** property of the Suppliers form.



|**Condition**|**Action**|**Arguments: Setting**|**Comment**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|IsNull([CountryRegion])|StopMacro||If CountryRegion is  **Null**, postal code can't be validated.|
|[CountryRegion] In ("France","Italy","Spain") And Len([Postal Code]) <> 5|MessageBox|Message: The postal code must be 5 characters. Beep:  **Yes** Type: **Information** Title: Postal Code Error|If the postal code isn't 5 characters, display a message.|
|...|CancelEvent||Cancel the event.|
||GoToControl|Control Name: PostalCode||
|[CountryRegion] In ("Australia","Singapore") And Len([Postal Code]) <> 4|MessageBox|Message: The postal code must be 4 characters. Beep:  **Yes** Type: **Information** Title: Postal Code Error|If the postal code isn't 4 characters, display a message.|
|...|CancelEvent||Cancel the event.|
||GoToControl|Control Name: PostalCode||
|([CountryRegion] = "Canada") And ([Postal Code] Not Like"[A-Z][0-9][A-Z] [0-9][A-Z][0-9]")|MessageBox|Message: The postal code is not valid. Example of Canadian code: H1J 1C3 Beep:  **Yes** Type: **Information** Title: Postal Code Error|If the postal code isn't correct for Canada, display a message. (Example of Canadian code: H1J 1C3)|
|...|CancelEvent||Cancel the event.|
