
# CreateRecord Data Block

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **CreateRecord** data block to create a new record in the specified table.


 **Note**  The  **CreateRecord** data block is available only in Data Macros.


## Setting

The  **CreateRecord** data block has the following arguments.



|**Argument**|**Required**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**Create a Record In**|Yes|The name of the table to create the new record in. |
|**Alias**|No|An string that identifies the record. You can use the record's alias to identify|

## Remarks

The record created by  **CreateRecord** automatically becomes the current record.

After  **CreateRecord** statement, you can insert a block of commands that will execute before the new record is committed. The following actions are available in a **CreateRecord** data block.


||
|:-----|
|[CancelRecordChange Macro Action](73031240-1ff6-660b-b25f-11a880df6031.md)|
|[Comment Macro Statement](474f9410-8099-9b72-01d8-08c07f736c9f.md)|
|[Group Macro Statement](42aa4afa-ab5d-9dcc-2182-786f025e316d.md)|
|[If...Then...Else Macro Statement](0c4a4b7a-4fdb-9dbc-a94e-939a2ff1c0e5.md)|
|[SetField Macro Action](66bd26e3-e8c3-b9a1-2f16-f29adc44a345.md)|
|[SetLocalVar Macro Action](8a6af395-0f76-72e2-37f3-2cff22a38b3c.md)|
After the  **CreateRecord** action creates a record, use the **SetField** action to specify a value of a field in the new record.

You can use an  **If...Then...Else** statment to perform operations based on a condition.

To cancel the creation of a record, use the  **CancelRecordChange** action. This prevents the changes from being committed and exits the **CreateRecord** data block.

Once the new record is committed, you can use the  **LastCreateRecordIdentity** local variable to work with the record. For example, use the following syntax to refer to the AssignedTo field of the most recently created record.




```
[LastCreateRecordIdentity].[AssignedTo]
```

The  **CreateRecord** data block can only be used in the **[After Insert](78013896-ee07-6979-96f7-fa0f3490419e.md)**, **[After Update](5213793b-8301-0f18-3a12-4e3764c879ac.md)**, and **[After Update](5213793b-8301-0f18-3a12-4e3764c879ac.md)** data macro events.

