
# Error Object (DAO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **Error** object contains details about data access errors, each of which pertains to a single operation involving DAO.


## Remarks

Any operation involving DAO can generate one or more errors. For example, a call to an ODBC server might result in an error from the database server, an error from ODBC, and a DAO error. As each such error occurs, an  **Error** object is placed in the **Errors** collection of the **DBEngine** object. A single event can therefore result in several **Error** objects appearing in the **Errors** collection.

When a subsequent DAO operation generates an error, the  **Errors** collection is cleared, and one or more new **Error** objects are placed in the **Errors** collection. DAO operations that don't generate an error have no effect on the **Errors** collection.

The set of  **Error** objects in the **Errors** collection describes one error. The first **Error** object is the lowest level error (the originating error), the second the next higher level error, and so forth. For example, if an ODBC error occurs while trying to open a **[Recordset](9774232c-e6da-175b-fc7f-ed2ab7908fa0.md)** object, the first **Error** object— **Errors** (0)— contains the lowest level ODBC error; subsequent errors contain the ODBC errors returned by the various layers of ODBC. In this case, the ODBC driver manager, and possibly the driver itself, return separate **Error** objects. The last **Error** object— **Errors.Count-** 1— contains the DAO error indicating that the object couldn't be opened.

Enumerating the specific errors in the  **Errors** collection enables your error-handling routines to more precisely determine the cause and origin of an error, and take appropriate steps to recover. You can read the **Error** object's properties to obtain specific details about each error, including:




- The  **[Description](47a84bec-3258-f2c7-e1af-239da39844dc.md)** property, which contains the text of the error alert that will be displayed on the screen if the error is not trapped.
    
- The  **[Number](2fb94dca-f990-04f8-bbd2-9919d28de75a.md)** property, which contains the Long integer value of the error constant.
    
- The  **[Source](3c101cac-278e-025e-55a4-8a9d1ee7db3c.md)** property, which identifies the object that raised the error. This is particularly useful when you have several **Error** objects in the **Errors** collection following a request to an ODBC data source.
    
- The  **HelpFile** and **HelpContext** properties, which indicate the appropriate Microsoft Windows Help file and Help topic, respectively, (if any exist) for the error.
    
     **Note**  When programming in Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), if you use the  **New** keyword to create an object that subsequently causes an error before that object has been appended to a collection, the **DBEngine** object's **Errors** collection won't contain an entry for that object's error, because the new object is not associated with the **DBEngine** object. However, the error information is available in the VBA **Err** object. Your VBA error-handling code should examine the **Errors** collection whenever you anticipate a data access error. If you are writing a centralized error handler, test the VBA **Err** object to determine if the error information in the **Errors** collection is valid. If the **Number** property of the last element of the **Errors** collection ( `DBEngine.Errors.Count - 1`) and the value of the  **Err** object match, you can then use a series of **Select Case** statements to identify the particular DAO error or errors that occurred. If they do not match, use the **[Refresh](dc352c5f-09d0-bfb3-b24a-4c3454dbf5aa.md)** method on the **Errors** collection.



## Example

This example forces an error, traps it, and displays the  **Description**, **Number**, **Source**, **HelpContext**, and **HelpFile** properties of the resulting **Error** object.


```vb
Sub DescriptionX() 
 
   Dim dbsTest As Database 
 
   On Error GoTo ErrorHandler 
 
   ' Intentionally trigger an error. 
   Set dbsTest = OpenDatabase("NoDatabase") 
 
   Exit Sub 
 
ErrorHandler: 
   Dim strError As String 
   Dim errLoop As Error 
 
   ' Enumerate Errors collection and display properties of  
   ' each Error object. 
   For Each errLoop In Errors 
      With errLoop 
         strError = _ 
            "Error #" &; .Number &; vbCr 
         strError = strError &; _ 
            "  " &; .Description &; vbCr 
         strError = strError &; _ 
            "  (Source: " &; .Source &; ")" &; vbCr 
         strError = strError &; _ 
            "Press F1 to see topic " &; .HelpContext &; vbCr 
         strError = strError &; _ 
            "  in the file " &; .HelpFile &; "." 
      End With 
      MsgBox strError 
   Next 
 
   Resume Next 
 
End Sub
```

