
# ParentURL Property (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_



Indicates an absolute URL string that points to the parent [Record](817aaf13-78d4-1134-aa94-997e92077c22.md) of the current **Record** object.

## Return Value

Returns a  **String** value that indicates the URL of the parent **Record**.


## Remarks

The  **ParentURL** property depends upon the source used to open the **Record** object. For example, the **Record** may be opened with a source containing a relative path name of a directory referenced by the[ActiveConnection](5501b2d7-b62c-5fff-1edd-2b7efb3f8c4a.md) property.

Suppose "second" is a folder contained under "first". Open the  **Record** object with the following:




```
record.ActiveConnection = "http://first"
record.Open "second"


```

Now, the value of  `the` **ParentURL** property is **ParentURL** property is `"http://first"`, the same as  **ActiveConnection**.

The source may also be an absolute URL such as,  `"http://first/second"`. The  **ParentURL** property is then `"http://first"`, the level above . The  **ParentURL** property is then `"http://first"`, the level above  `"second"`.

This property may be a null value if:


- There is no parent for the current object; for example, if the  **Record** object represents the root of a directory.
    
- The  **Record** object represents an entity that cannot be specified with a URL.
    
This property is read-only.


 **Note**  This property is only supported by document source providers, such as the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Records and Provider-Supplied Fields](cde72d6a-b9b0-9636-581d-68239a3f522d.md).


 **Note**  URLs using the http scheme will automatically invoke the [Microsoft OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing](5d1e8db5-dabb-0914-e11e-e2eac72bfa77.md). For more information, see [Absolute and Relative URLs](79a1f793-7154-1c13-7dfe-a1b8cd64e1ea.md).


 **Note**  If the current record contains a data record from an ADO  **Recordset**, accessing the **ParentURL** property causes a run-time error, indicating that no URL is possible.

