
# Refresh Method (ADO)

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

 **In this article**
[Syntax](#sectionSection1)
[Remarks](#sectionSection2)
[Parameters](#sectionSection3)



Updates the objects in a collection to reflect objects available from, and specific to, the provider.

## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _collection_. **Refresh**


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The  **Refresh** method accomplishes different tasks depending on the collection from which you call it.


## Parameters
<a name="sectionSection3"> </a>

Using the  **Refresh** method on a[Command](64f4ef03-f858-c004-b891-0c96d13a5e6e.md) object's[Parameters](554387c3-3572-5391-3b24-c7d3443844cd.md) collection retrieves provider-side parameter information for the stored procedure or parameterized query specified in the **Command** object. The collection will be empty for providers that do not support stored procedure calls or parameterized queries.

You should set the [ActiveConnection](5501b2d7-b62c-5fff-1edd-2b7efb3f8c4a.md) property of the **Command** object to a valid[Connection](c16023aa-0321-2513-ee71-255d6ffba03d.md) object, the[CommandText](0debec1c-068f-0aea-fce8-e61aa39c5907.md) property to a valid command, and the[CommandType](c8d4fc1c-502b-11f3-af9d-605a03b6f056.md) property to **adCmdStoredProc** before calling the **Refresh** method.

If you access the  **Parameters** collection before calling the **Refresh** method, ADO will automatically call the method and populate the collection for you.


 **Note**  If you use the  **Refresh** method to obtain parameter information from the provider and it returns one or more variable-length data type[Parameter](7577598e-3d0c-30c6-5f24-1cfe98791798.md) objects, ADO may allocate memory for the parameters based on their maximum potential size, which will cause an error during execution. You should explicitly set the[Size](24596b5c-b1cc-e97e-68b6-8ff53baf150b.md) property for these parameters before calling the[Execute](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/01812c8c-403e-4428-23f6-86bda747bd0e%28Office.15%29.aspx) method to prevent errors.

 **Fields**

Using the  **Refresh** method on the **Fields** collection has no visible effect. To retrieve changes from the underlying database structure, you must use either the[Requery](1062d907-979f-020a-b2ed-94e11c0e7d08.md) method or, if the[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object does not support bookmarks, the[MoveFirst](d04ce41c-77c9-df42-115a-65c50a38518a.md) method.

 **Properties**

Using the  **Refresh** method on a **Properties** collection of some objects populates the collection with the dynamic properties that the provider exposes. These properties provide information about functionality specific to the provider, beyond the built-in properties ADO supports.

