
# BOF, EOF Properties (ADO)

 **Last modified:** March 09, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_




-  **BOF** — Indicates that the current record position is before the first record in a[Recordset](0f963bf8-f066-dc8a-b754-f427de712df1.md) object.
    
-  **EOF** — Indicates that the current record position is after the last record in a **Recordset** object.
    

## Return Value

The  **BOF** and **EOF** properties return **Boolean** values.


## Remarks

Use the  **BOF** and **EOF** properties to determine whether a **Recordset** object contains records or whether you've gone beyond the limits of a **Recordset** object when you move from record to record.

The  **BOF** property returns **True** (-1) if the current record position is before the first record and **False** (0) if the current record position is on or after the first record.

The  **EOF** property returns **True** if the current record position is after the last record and **False** if the current record position is on or before the last record.

If either the  **BOF** or **EOF** property is **True**, there is no current record.

If you open a  **Recordset** object containing no records, the **BOF** and **EOF** properties are set to **True** (see the[RecordCount](e3072d10-5bf7-02a8-027e-a9d9a34e3f27.md) property for more information about this state of a **Recordset** ). When you open a **Recordset** object that contains at least one record, the first record is the current record and the **BOF** and **EOF** properties are **False**.

If you delete the last remaining record in the  **Recordset** object, the **BOF** and **EOF** properties may remain **False** until you attempt to reposition the current record.

This table shows which  **Move** methods are allowed with different combinations of the **BOF** and **EOF** properties.



|****|**MoveFirst,MoveLast**|**MovePrevious,Move < 0**|**Move 0**|**MoveNext,Move > 0**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**BOF=True,** **EOF=False**|Allowed|Error|Error|Allowed|
|**BOF=False,** **EOF=True**|Allowed|Allowed|Error|Error|
|Both  **True**|Error|Error|Error|Error|
|Both  **False**|Allowed|Allowed|Allowed|Allowed|
Allowing a  **Move** method doesn't guarantee that the method will successfully locate a record; it only means that calling the specified **Move** method won't generate an error.

The following table shows what happens to the  **BOF** and **EOF** property settings when you call various **Move** methods but are unable to successfully locate a record.



|****|**BOF**|**EOF**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**MoveFirst**, **MoveLast**|Set to  **True**|Set to  **True**|
|**Move** 0|No change|No change|
|**MovePrevious**, **Move** < 0|Set to  **True**|No change|
|**MoveNext**, **Move** > 0|No change|Set to  **True**|
