
# Using Bookmarks

 **Last modified:** June 29, 2011

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

It is often useful to return directly to a specific record after having moved around in the  **Recordset** without having to scroll through every record and compare values. For example, if you attempt to search for a record using the **Find** method but the search returns no records, you are automatically placed at either end of the **Recordset**. If your provider supports them, bookmarks can be used to mark your place before using the **Find** method so you can return to your location. A bookmark is a **Variant** type value that uniquely identifies a record in a **Recordset** object.

You can also use a variant array of bookmarks with the  **Recordset** **Filter** method to filter on a selected set of records. For details about this technique, see Filtering the Results in the topic,[Working with Recordsets](9cd52866-2738-8150-381c-eee0b8a6cd36.md), later in this chapter.
You can use the  **Bookmark** property to get a bookmark for a record, or set the current record in a **Recordset** object to the record identified by a valid bookmark. The following code uses the **Bookmark** property to set a bookmark and then return to the bookmarked record after moving on to other records. To determine if your **Recordset** supports bookmarks, use the **Supports** method.



```vb
'BeginBookmarkEg 
 Dim varBookmark As Variant 
 Dim blnCanBkmrk As Boolean 
 
 objRs.Open strSQL, strConnStr, adOpenStatic, adLockOptimistic, adCmdText 
 
 If objRs.RecordCount > 4 Then 
 objRs.Move 4 ' move to the fifth record 
 blnCanBkmrk = objRs.Supports(adBookmark) 
 If blnCanBkmrk = True Then 
 varBookmark = objRs.Bookmark ' record the bookmark 
 objRs.MoveLast ' move to a different record 
 objRs.Bookmark = varBookmark ' return to the bookmarked (sixth) record 
 End If 
 End If 
'EndBookmarkEg 

```

The [Supports](2b4062ce-44df-4e84-1ce9-d6618c10c2af.md) method is covered in more detail later.
Except for the case of cloned  **Recordsets**, bookmarks are unique to the **Recordset** in which they were created, even if the same command is used. This means that you cannot use a **Bookmark** obtained from one **Recordset** to move to the same record in a second **Recordset** opened with the same command.
