
# RenameObject Macro Action

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _ **Applies to:** Access 2013 | Access 2016_

You can use the  **RenameObject** action to rename a specified database object.


 **Note**  This action will not be allowed if the database is not trusted. For more information about enabling macros, see the links in the  **See Also** section of this article.


## Setting

The  **RenameObject** action has the following arguments.



|**Action argument**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**New Name**|A new name for the database object. Enter the object name in the  **New Name** box in the **Action Arguments** section of the Macro Builder pane. This is a required argument.|
|**Object Type**|The type of object you want to rename. Click  **Table**,  **Query**,  **Form**,  **Report**,  **Macro**,  **Module**,  **Data Access Page**,  **Server View**,  **Diagram**,  **Stored Procedure**, or  **Function**. To rename the object selected in the Navigation Pane, leave this argument blank.|
|**Old Name**|The name of the object to be renamed. The  **Old Name** box shows all objects in the database of the type selected by the **Object Type** argument. If you leave the **Object Type** argument blank, leave this argument blank also.
 **Note**  If you run a macro containing the  **Rename** action in a library database, Microsoft Access first looks for the object with this name in the library database, and then in the current database.

|

## Remarks

The new name of the database object must follow the standard naming conventions for Access objects.

You can't rename an open object.

If you leave the  **Object Type** and **Old Name** arguments blank, Access renames the object selected in the Navigation Pane. To select an object in the Navigation Pane, you can use the **SelectObject** action with the **In Navigation Pane** argument set to **Yes**.

You can also rename an object by right-clicking it in the Navigation Pane, clicking  **Rename**, and entering a new name. With the  **RenameObject** action, you don't have to select the object first in the Navigation Pane, and you don't have to stop the macro to enter the new name.

This action differs from the  **CopyObject** action, which creates a copy of the object under a new name.

To run the  **RenameObject** action in a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) module, use the **Rename** method of the **DoCmd** object.

