
# Shapes Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **Shape**objects that represent all the shapes in a document or all the shapes in all the headers and footers in a document. Each  ** [Shape](604029ce-9b2f-9748-5d4e-b458796fa2f0.md)** object represents an object in the drawing layer, such as an AutoShape, freeform, OLE object, or picture.

## Remarks

If you want to work with a subset of the shapes on a document — for example, to do something to only the AutoShapes on the document or to only the selected shapes — you must construct a  ** [ShapeRange](7112acc0-e241-16ef-77bc-101b72d05af0.md)**collection that contains the shapes you want to work with.

Use the  **Shapes**property to return the  **Shapes** collection. The following example selects all the shapes on the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Shapes.SelectAll
```


 **Note**  If you want to do something (like delete or set a property) to all the shapes on a document at the same time, use the  **Range**method to create a  **ShapeRange** object that contains all the shapes in the **Shapes** collection, and then apply the appropriate property or method to the **ShapeRange** object.

Use one of the following methods of the  **Shapes** collection: **AddCallout**,  **AddCurve**,  **AddLabel**,  **AddLine**,  **AddOleControl**,  **AddOleObject**,  **AddPolyline**,  **AddShape**,  **AddTextbox**,  **AddTextEffect**, or  **BuildFreeForm**to add a shape to a document return a  **Shape** object that represents the newly created shape The following example adds a rectangle to the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Shapes.AddShape msoShapeRectangle, 50, 50, 100, 200
```

Use  **Shapes**(Index), where Index is the name or the index number, to return a single  **Shape** object. The following example horizontally flips shape one on the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Shapes(1).Flip msoFlipHorizontal
```

This example horizontally flips the shape named "Rectangle 1" on the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Shapes("Rectangle 1").Flip msoFlipHorizontal
```

Each shape is assigned a default name when it is created. For example, if you add three different shapes to a document, they might be named "Rectangle 2," "TextBox 3," and "Oval 4." To give a shape a more meaningful name, set the  **Name** property.

The  **Shapes** collection does not include ** [InlineShape](a8fd110a-4aa7-c4b9-1559-32022787d955.md)**objects.  **InlineShape** objects are treated like characters and are positioned as characters within a line of text. **Shape** objects are anchored to a range of text but are free-floating and can be positioned anywhere on the page. You can use the **ConvertToInlineShape**method and the  **ConvertToShape**method to convert shapes from one type to the other. You can convert only pictures, OLE objects, and ActiveX controls to inline shapes.

The  **Count** property for this collection in a document returns the number of items in the main story only. To count the shapes in all the headers and footers, use the **Shapes** collection with any **HeaderFooter** object.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Shapes Object Members](045d4e8c-b838-24f8-5919-c5a05e9bb3c5.md)
