
# Range Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a contiguous area in a document. Each  **Range** object is defined by a starting and ending character position.

## Remarks

Similar to the way bookmarks are used in a document,  **Range** objects are used in Visual Basic procedures to identify specific portions of a document. However, unlike a bookmark, a **Range** object only exists while the procedure that defined it is running. **Range** objects are independent of the selection. That is, you can define and manipulate a range without changing the selection. You can also define multiple ranges in a document, while there can be only one selection per pane.

Use the  **Range**method to return a  **Range** object defined by the given starting and ending character positions. The following example returns a **Range** object that refers to the first 10 characters in the active document.




```
Set myRange = ActiveDocument.Range(Start:=0, End:=10)
```

Use the  **Range**property to return a  **Range** object defined by the beginning and end of another object. The **Range** property applies to many objects (for example, **Paragraph**,  **Bookmark**, and  **Cell**). The following example returns a  **Range** object that refers to the first paragraph in the active document.




```
Set aRange = ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(1).Range
```

The following example returns a  **Range** object that refers to the second through fourth paragraphs in the active document




```
Set aRange = ActiveDocument.Range( _ 
 Start:=ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(2).Range.Start, _ 
 End:=ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(4).Range.End)
```

For more information about working with  **Range** objects, see [Working with Range Objects](9e240aa7-8608-9d70-aee3-2e202687459e.md).


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Range Object Members](3c4a36d9-2a80-5aaf-827b-275a52bfa193.md)
