
# Border.LineStyle Property (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets the border line style for the specified object. Read/write  **WdLineStyle**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **LineStyle**

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents a  ** [Border](be48c020-b86c-c004-ce1c-76d9edae9791.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Setting the  **LineStyle** property for a range that refers to individual characters or words applies a character border.

Setting the  **LineStyle** property for a paragraph or range of paragraphs applies a paragraph border. Use the **InsideLineStyle** property to apply a border between consecutive paragraphs.

Setting the  **LineStyle** property for a section applies a page border around the pages in the section.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

If the selection is a paragraph or a collapsed selection, this example adds a single 0.75-point paragraph border above the selection. If the selection doesn't include a paragraph, a border is applied around the selected text.


```
With Selection.Borders(wdBorderTop) 
 .LineStyle = wdLineStyleSingle 
 .LineWidth = wdLineWidth075pt 
End With
```

This example adds a double 1.5-point border below each frame in the active document.




```
For Each aFrame In ActiveDocument.Frames 
 With aFrame.Borders(wdBorderBottom) 
 .LineStyle = wdLineStyleDouble 
 .LineWidth = wdLineWidth150pt 
 End With 
Next aFrame
```

The following example applies a border around the fourth word in the active document. Applying a single border (in this example, a top border) to text applies a border around the text.




```
ActiveDocument.Words(4).Borders(wdBorderTop) _ 
 .LineStyle = wdLineStyleSingle
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Border Object](be48c020-b86c-c004-ce1c-76d9edae9791.md)
#### Other resources


 [Border Object Members](0c2f320b-8f74-961b-297e-dc068db579aa.md)
