
# TwoInitialCapsExceptions Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [TwoInitialCapsException](48e89297-4137-960b-a92a-2a70929e298a.md)**objects that represent all the items listed in the  **Don't correct** box on the **INitial CAps** tab in the **AutoCorrect Exceptions** dialog box.

## Remarks

Use the  **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** property to return the **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** collection. The following example displays the items in this collection.


```
For Each aCap In AutoCorrect.TwoInitialCapsExceptions 
 MsgBox aCap.Name 
Next aCap
```

If the  **TwoInitialCapsAutoAdd**property is  **True**, words are automatically added to the list of initial-capital exceptions. Use the  **Add**method to add an item to the  **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** collection. The following example adds "Industry" to the list of initial-capital exceptions.




```
AutoCorrect.TwoInitialCapsExceptions.Add Name:="INdustry"
```

Use  **TwoInitialCapsExceptions**(Index), where Index is the initial cap name or the index number, to return a single  **TwoInitialCapsException** object. The following example deletes the initial-capital item named "KMenu."




```
AutoCorrect.TwoInitialCapsExceptions("KMenu").Delete
```

The index number represents the position of the initial-capital exception in the  **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** collection. The following example displays the name of the first item in the **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** collection.




```
MsgBox AutoCorrect.TwoInitialCapsExceptions(1).Name
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [TwoInitialCapsExceptions Object Members](05f0a660-a906-3d20-0190-99b23153fe73.md)
