
# Object Doesn't Support this Property or Method

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Word 2013_

The "object doesn't support this property or method" error occurs when you try to use a method or property that the specified object does not support. For example, the following instruction results in an error.




```
ActiveDocument.Copy
```

The  ** [ActiveDocument](c20a7c9f-f8a4-7913-f53f-10baa6807def.md)** property returns a ** [Document](8d83487a-2345-a036-a916-971c9db5b7fb.md)** object. There is no **Copy** method or property available for the **Document** object, therefore an error occurs. To determine what properties and methods are available for an object, do any of the following.

- Use the Object Browser to determine what members (properties and methods) are available for the selected class (object).
    
- Use the IntelliSense feature in the Visual Basic Editor. When you type a period (.) after a property or method in the Visual Basic Editor, a list of available properties and methods is displayed.
    
- Use Word Visual Basic for Applications Help to determine which properties and methods can be used with an object. Each object topic in Help includes a page that lists the properties and methods for the object. Press F1 while in the Object Browser or while in a module to display the appropriate Help topic.
    
- Use the  **TypeName** function to determine the type of object returned by an expression. The following example displays "Range" because the ** [Content](80578329-a648-1d4b-f83d-4b2d289813fb.md)** property returns a ** [Range](15a7a1c4-5f3f-5b6e-60e9-29688de3f274.md)** object.
    
  ```
  MsgBox TypeName(ActiveDocument.Content)
  ```


    
    
