
# Returning an Object from a Collection (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Word 2013_

The  **Item** method returns a single object from a collection. The following example sets the `docFirst` variable to a ** [Document](8d83487a-2345-a036-a916-971c9db5b7fb.md)** object that represents the first document in the ** [Documents](fc4ac973-19c1-703a-5538-f4426b8b7564.md)** collection.




```
Sub SetFirstDoc() 
    Dim docFirst As Document 
    Set docFirst = Documents.Item(1) 
End Sub
```

The  **Item** method is the default method for most collections, so you can write the same statement more concisely by omitting the **Item** keyword.



```
Sub SetFirstDoc() 
    Dim docFirst As Document 
    Set docFirst = Documents(1) 
End Sub
```


## Named Objects

Although you can usually specify an integer value with the  **Item** method, it may be more convenient to return an object by name. The following example switches the focus to a document named Sales.doc.


```
Sub ActivateDocument() 
    Documents("Sales.doc").Activate 
    MsgBox ActiveDocument.Name 
End Sub
```

The following example selects the text marked by the first bookmark in the active document.




```
Sub SelectBookmark() 
    ActiveDocument.Bookmarks(1).Select 
    MsgBox Selection.Text 
End Sub
```

Not all collections can be indexed by name. To determine the valid collection index values, see the collection object topic.


## Predefined Index Values

Some collections have predefined index values that you can use to return single objects. Each predefined index value is represented by a constant. For example, you specify a  ** [WdBorderType](7d62d139-430b-0dea-aa7f-31d1b4fee10d.md)** constant with the **Borders** property to return a single ** [Border](be48c020-b86c-c004-ce1c-76d9edae9791.md)** object.

The following example adds a single 0.75-point border below the first paragraph in the selection.




```
Sub AddBorderToFirstParagraphInSelection() 
    With Selection.Paragraphs(1).Borders(wdBorderBottom) 
        .LineStyle = wdLineStyleSingle 
        .LineWidth = wdLineWidth300pt 
        .Color = wdColorBlue 
    End With 
End Sub
```

