
# List Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single list format that's been applied to specified paragraphs in a document. The  **List** object is a member of the **Lists**collection.

## Remarks

Use  **Lists**(Index), where Index is the index number, to return a single  **List** object. The following example returns the number of items in list one in the active document.


```
mycount = ActiveDocument.Lists(1).CountNumberedItems
```

To return all the paragraphs that have list formatting, use the  **ListParagraphs**property. To return them as a range, use the  **Range**property.

To apply a different list format to an existing list, use the  **ApplyListTemplate**method with the  **List** object. To add a new list to a document, use the **ApplyListTemplate** method with the ** [ListFormat](74773fd6-b713-34d4-b7be-f543c983008d.md)** object for a specified range.

Use the  **CanContinuePreviousList**method to determine whether you can continue the list formatting from a list that was previously applied to the document.

Use the  **CountNumberedItems**method to return the number of items in a numbered or bulleted list, including LISTNUM fields.

To determine whether a list contains more than one list template, use the  **SingleListTemplate**property.

You can manipulate the individual  **List** objects within a document, but for more precise control you should work with the **ListFormat**object.


 **Note**  Picture-bulleted lists are not included in the  ** [Lists](1fd927c5-6186-5ca0-80ae-c2ab225d092c.md)** collection and cannot be manipulated using the **List** object.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [List Object Members](939e2533-7d59-bc78-0e89-53e4f204da49.md)
