
# Endnotes.StartingNumber Property (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets the starting note number, line number, or page number. Read/write  **Long**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **StartingNumber**

 _expression_An expression that represents a  ** [Endnotes](32676579-dd41-e83d-a305-fcc2b7cb4f64.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You must be in print layout view to see line numbering.

When applied to page numbers, this property returns or sets the beginning page number for the specified  **HeaderFooter**object. This number may or may not be visible on the first page, depending on the setting of the  **ShowFirstPageNumber**property. The  **RestartNumberingAtSection**property, if set to  **False**, will override the  **StartingNumber** property so that page numbering can continue from the previous section.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example creates a new document, sets the starting number for footnotes to 10, and then adds a footnote at the insertion point.


```
Set myDoc = Documents.Add 
With myDoc.Footnotes 
 .StartingNumber = 10 
 .Add Range:=Selection.Range, Text:="Text for a footnote" 
End With
```

This example enables line numbering for the active document. The starting number is set to 5, every fifth line number is shown, and the numbering starts over at the beginning of each section in the document.




```
With ActiveDocument.PageSetup.LineNumbering 
 .Active = True 
 .StartingNumber = 5 
 .CountBy = 5 
 .RestartMode = wdRestartSection 
End With
```

This example sets properties for page numbers, and then it adds page numbers to the header of the active document.




```
With ActiveDocument.Sections(1) _ 
 .Headers(wdHeaderFooterPrimary).PageNumbers 
 .NumberStyle = wdPageNumberStyleArabic 
 .IncludeChapterNumber = False 
 .RestartNumberingAtSection = True 
 .StartingNumber = 5 
 .Add PageNumberAlignment:=wdAlignPageNumberCenter, _ 
 FirstPage:=True 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Endnotes Collection Object](32676579-dd41-e83d-a305-fcc2b7cb4f64.md)
#### Other resources


 [Endnotes Object Members](b70ef623-9c2a-6cb9-acb3-64d3f150b62a.md)
