
# TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [TableOfAuthoritiesCategory](ce481ec8-5d5f-fcb8-1d04-5b796accdd3b.md)**objects that represent the table of authorities categories, such as Cases and Statutes. The  **TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories** collection includes all 16 categories listed in the **Category** box on the **Table of Authorities** tab in the **Index and Tables** dialog box.

## Remarks

Use the  **TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories** property to return the **TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories** collection. The following example displays the names of the categories in the **TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories** collection.


```
For Each aCat In ActiveDocument.TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories 
 response = MsgBox(Prompt:=aCat, Buttons:=vbOKCancel) 
 If response = vbCancel Then Exit For 
Next aCat
```

The  **Add** method isn't available for the **TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories** collection. The collection is limited to 16 items; however, you can use the **Name** property to rename an existing category.

Use  **TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories**(Index), where Index is the category name or index number, to return a single  **TableOfAuthoritiesCategory** object. The following example renames the Rules category as Other Provisions.




```
ActiveDocument.TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories("Rules").Name = _ 
 "Other Provisions"
```

The index number represents the position of the category in the  **Index and Tables** dialog box. The following example displays the name of the first category in the **TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories** collection.




```
MsgBox ActiveDocument.TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories(1).Name
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [TablesOfAuthoritiesCategories Object Members](bb4386eb-bb10-3b65-feef-8ff6dcc67509.md)
