
# Windows Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [Window](d92f83f9-ae44-56c0-4584-7a9359253c6d.md)**objects that represent all the available windows. The  **Windows** collection for the **Application** object contains all the windows in the application, whereas the **Windows** collection for the **Document** object contains only the windows that display the specified document.

## Remarks

Use the  **Windows** property to return the **Windows** collection. The following example tiles all the windows so that they don't overlap one another.


```
Windows.Arrange ArrangeStyle:=wdTiled
```

Use the  **Add**method or the  **NewWindow**method to add a new window to the  **Windows** collection. Each of the following statements creates a new window for the document in the active window.




```
ActiveDocument.ActiveWindow.NewWindow 
NewWindow 
Windows.Add
```

Use  **Windows**(Index), where Index is the window name or the index number, to return a single  **Window** object. The following example maximizes the Document1 window.




```
Windows("Document1").WindowState = wdWindowStateMaximize
```

The index number is the number to the left of the window name on the  **Window** menu. The following example displays the caption of the first window in the **Windows** collection.




```
MsgBox Windows(1).Caption
```

A colon (:) and a number appear in the window caption when more than one window is open for a document.

When you switch the view to print preview, a new window is created. This window is removed from the  **Windows** collection when you close print preview.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Windows Object Members](4a0863e6-b72c-fc50-95ac-3e9a0d231626.md)
