
# AutoCorrectEntries Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **AutoCorrectEntry** objects that represent all the AutoCorrect entries available to Word. The **AutoCorrectEntries** collection includes all the entries in the **AutoCorrect** dialog box.

## Remarks

Use the  ** [Entries](eaf66013-5417-742b-9bf1-cbf83626a8e5.md)** property to return the **AutoCorrectEntries** collection. The following example displays the number of ** [AutoCorrectEntry](33173958-42eb-00ef-7f37-41f95ed47f87.md)** objects in the **AutoCorrectEntries** collection.


```
MsgBox AutoCorrect.Entries.Count
```

Use the  ** [Add](670539d8-02f4-dcc9-79bd-20290766b029.md)** or ** [AddRichText](e03f37ca-1011-825f-5a79-29a23f2371f0.md)** method to add an AutoCorrect entry to the list of available entries. The following example adds a plain-text AutoCorrect entry for the misspelling of the word "their."




```
AutoCorrect.Entries.Add Name:="thier", Value:="their"
```

The following example creates an AutoCorrect entry named "PMO" based on the text and formatting of the selection.




```
AutoCorrect.Entries.AddRichText Name:="PMO", Range:=Selection.Range
```

Use  **Entries**( _index_), where  _index_ is the AutoCorrect entry name or index number, to return a single **AutoCorrectEntry** object. You must exactly match the spelling (but not necessarily the capitalization) of the name, as it is shown under **Replace** in the **AutoCorrect** dialog box. The following example sets the value of an existing AutoCorrect entry named "teh."




```
AutoCorrect.Entries("teh").Value = "the"
```

The following example displays the name and value of the first AutoCorrent entry.




```
MsgBox "Name = " &amp; AutoCorrect.Entries(1).Name &amp; vbCr &amp; _ 
 "Value " &amp; AutoCorrect.Entries(1).Value
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [AutoCorrectEntries Object Members](bc7d11ff-7678-d60b-9cf9-b03b1881e5f6.md)
