
# TextEffectFormat.ToggleVerticalText Method (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Switches the text flow in the specified WordArt from horizontal to vertical, or vice versa.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **ToggleVerticalText**

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents a  ** [TextEffectFormat](b274e5be-ed5b-7d63-aa4b-1d67b63e7c0b.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Using the  **ToggleVerticalText** method swaps the values of the **Width** and **Height** properties of the ** [Shape](604029ce-9b2f-9748-5d4e-b458796fa2f0.md)** object that represents the WordArt and leaves the **Left** and **Top** properties unchanged.

The  **Flip**method and  **Rotation**property of the  **Shape**object and the  **RotatedChars**property and  **ToggleVerticalText** method of the **TextEffectFormat** object all affect the character orientation and the direction of text flow in a ** [Shape](604029ce-9b2f-9748-5d4e-b458796fa2f0.md)** object that represents WordArt. You may have to experiment to find out how to combine the effects of these properties and methods to get the result you want.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example adds WordArt that contains the text "Test" to the active document and switches from horizontal text flow (the default for the specified WordArt style,  **msoTextEffect1**) to vertical text flow.


```
Dim newWordArt As Shape 
 
Set newWordArt = _ 
 ActiveDocument.Shapes.AddTextEffect( _ 
 PresetTextEffect:=msoTextEffect1, Text:="Test", _ 
 FontName:="Arial Black", FontSize:=36, FontBold:=False, _ 
 FontItalic:=False, Left:=100, Top:=100) 
newWordArt.TextEffect.ToggleVerticalText
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [TextEffectFormat Object](b274e5be-ed5b-7d63-aa4b-1d67b63e7c0b.md)
#### Other resources


 [TextEffectFormat Object Members](4bf3281f-19e3-f618-08ad-4b8093a25e6c.md)
