
# HeaderFooter Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single header or footer. The  **HeaderFooter** object is a member of the ** [HeadersFooters](41dbbaa7-f139-3d3c-54d4-03a57ab8417a.md)**collection. The  **HeadersFooters** collection includes all headers and footers in the specified document section.

## Remarks

Use  **Headers**(Index) or  **Footers**(Index), where index is one of the  **WdHeaderFooterIndex** constants ( **wdHeaderFooterEvenPages**,  **wdHeaderFooterFirstPage**, or  **wdHeaderFooterPrimary**), to return a single  **HeaderFooter** object. The following example changes the text of both the primary header and the primary footer in the first section of the active document.


```
With ActiveDocument.Sections(1) 
 .Headers(wdHeaderFooterPrimary).Range.Text = "Header text" 
 .Footers(wdHeaderFooterPrimary).Range.Text = "Footer text" 
End With
```

You can also return a single  **HeaderFooter** object by using the **HeaderFooter**property with a  **Selection** object.


 **Note**  You cannot add  **HeaderFooter** objects to the ** [HeadersFooters](41dbbaa7-f139-3d3c-54d4-03a57ab8417a.md)** collection.

Use the  **DifferentFirstPageHeaderFooter**property with the  **PageSetup** object to specify a different first page. The following example inserts text into the first page footer in the active document.




```
With ActiveDocument 
 .PageSetup.DifferentFirstPageHeaderFooter = True 
 .Sections(1).Footers(wdHeaderFooterFirstPage) _ 
 .Range.InsertBefore _ 
 "Written by Joe Smith" 
End With
```

Use the  **OddAndEvenPagesHeaderFooter**property with the  **PageSetup** object to specify different odd and even page headers and footers. If the **OddAndEvenPagesHeaderFooter** property is **True**, you can return an odd header or footer by using  **wdHeaderFooterPrimary**, and you can return an even header or footer by using  **wdHeaderFooterEvenPages**.

Use the  **Add**method with the  **PageNumbers** object to add a page number to a header or footer. The following example adds page numbers to the primary footer in the first section of the active document.




```
With ActiveDocument.Sections(1) 
 .Footers(wdHeaderFooterPrimary).PageNumbers.Add 
End With
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [HeaderFooter Object Members](400647fc-cf49-a468-850f-f94a054552c0.md)
