
# FileConverter Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a file converter that's used to open or save files. The  **FileConverter** object is a member of the **FileConverters**collection. The  ** [FileConverters](b9b8fc53-1c8e-224d-726a-4edf172ca647.md)** collection contains all the installed file converters for opening and saving files.

## Remarks

Use  **FileConverters**(Index), where Index is a class name or index number, to return a single  **FileConverter** object. The following example displays the extensions associated with the Microsoft Excel worksheet converter.


```
MsgBox FileConverters("MSBiff").Extensions
```

The index number represents the position of the file converter in the  ** [FileConverters](b9b8fc53-1c8e-224d-726a-4edf172ca647.md)** collection. The following example displays the format name of the first file converter.




```
MsgBox FileConverters(1).FormatName
```

You cannot create a new file converter or add one to the  ** [FileConverters](b9b8fc53-1c8e-224d-726a-4edf172ca647.md)** collection. **FileConverter** objects are added during installation of Microsoft Office or by installing supplemental file converters. Use either the **CanSave**or  **CanOpen**property to determine whether a  **FileConverter** object can be used to open or save document.

File converters for saving documents are listed in the  **Save As** dialog box. File converters for opening documents appear in a dialog box if the **Confirm conversion at Open** check box is selected on the **General** tab in the **Options** dialog box ( **Tools** menu).


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [FileConverter Object Members](cdf7a124-6c27-0edf-7a29-1b28f70d834f.md)
