
# HeadersFooters Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [HeaderFooter](3f2f926a-9220-5536-80ed-af63d2feb016.md)**objects that represent the headers or footers in the specified section of a document.

## Remarks

Use the  **Headers** or **Footers** property to return the **HeadersFooters** collection. The following example displays the text from the primary footer in the first section of the active document.


```
With ActiveDocument.Sections(1).Footers(wdHeaderFooterPrimary) 
 If .Range.Text <> vbCr Then 
 MsgBox .Range.Text 
 Else 
 MsgBox "Footer is empty" 
 End If 
End With
```


 **Note**  You cannot add  **HeaderFooter** objects to the **HeadersFooters** collection.

Use  **Headers**(Index) or  **Footers**(Index), where index is one of the  **WdHeaderFooterIndex** constants ( **wdHeaderFooterEvenPages**,  **wdHeaderFooterFirstPage**, or  **wdHeaderFooterPrimary**), to return a single  **HeaderFooter** object. The following example changes the text of both the primary header and the primary footer the first section of the active document.




```
With ActiveDocument.Sections(1) 
 .Headers(wdHeaderFooterPrimary).Range.Text = "Header text" 
 .Footers(wdHeaderFooterPrimary).Range.Text = "Footer text" 
End With
```

You can also return a single  **HeaderFooter** object by using the **HeaderFooter**property with a  **Selection** object.

Use the  **DifferentFirstPageHeaderFooter**property with the  **PageSetup** object to specify a different first page. The following example inserts text into the first page footer in the active document.




```
With ActiveDocument 
 .PageSetup.DifferentFirstPageHeaderFooter = True 
 .Sections(1).Footers(wdHeaderFooterFirstPage) _ 
 .Range.InsertBefore _ 
 "Written by Kate Edson" 
End With
```

Use the  **OddAndEvenPagesHeaderFooter**property with the  **PageSetup** object to specify different odd and even page headers and footers. If the **OddAndEvenPagesHeaderFooter** property is **True**, you can return an odd header or footer by using  **wdHeaderFooterPrimary**, and you can return an even header or footer by using  **wdHeaderFooterEvenPages**.

Use the  **Add**method with the  **PageNumbers** object to add a page number to a header or footer. The following example adds page numbers to the first page footer in the first section in the active document.




```
With ActiveDocument.Sections(1) 
 .PageSetup.DifferentFirstPageHeaderFooter = True 
 .Footers(wdHeaderFooterPrimary).PageNumbers.Add _ 
 FirstPage:=True 
End With
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [HeadersFooters Object Members](6cf7f768-d356-7ff4-089c-7f3f810d00a8.md)
