
# Dictionaries Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **Dictionary**objects that includes the active custom spelling dictionaries.

## Remarks

Use the  ** [CustomDictionaries](1c6dca90-70f0-6b52-72d1-debda33d2ba0.md)**property to return the collection of currently active custom dictionaries. The following example displays the names of all the active custom dictionaries.


```
For Each d In CustomDictionaries 
 Msgbox d.Name 
Next d
```

Use the  ** [Add](aacd7041-e34f-b6e4-d895-925dad575d40.md)**method to add a new custom dictionary to the collection of active custom dictionaries. If there isn't a file with the name specified by FileName, Word creates it. The following example adds "MyCustom.dic" to the collection of custom dictionaries.




```
CustomDictionaries.Add FileName:="MyCustom.dic"
```

Use the  ** [ClearAll](cdca60de-9382-1d03-b1b2-0a8827f69e24.md)**method to unload all custom dictionaries. Note, however, that this method doesn't delete the dictionary files. After you use this method, the number of custom dictionaries in the collection is 0 (zero). The following example clears the custom dictionaries and creates a new custom dictionary file. The new dictionary is set as the active custom dictionary, to which Word will automatically add any new words it encounters.




```
With CustomDictionaries 
 .ClearAll 
 .Add FileName:= "MyCustom.dic" 
 .ActiveCustomDictionary = CustomDictionaries(1) 
End With
```

Remarks

You set the custom dictionary to which new words are added by using the  ** [ActiveCustomDictionary](2f6a3fa0-4e7d-a7f0-20ce-49688dab7191.md)**property. If you try to set this property to a dictionary that isn't a custom dictionary, an error occurs.

The  ** [Maximum](fa9f31e0-1965-5d96-568b-e0b8049127e3.md)**property returns the maximum number of simultaneous custom spelling dictionaries that the application can support. For Word, this maximum is 10.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Dictionaries Object Members](9eebc8c2-843b-6e86-2faf-cd27130ebf9f.md)
