
# TwoInitialCapsException Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single initial-capital AutoCorrect exception. The  **TwoInitialCapsException** object is a member of the ** [TwoInitialCapsExceptions](21af2d69-8d76-026d-2002-8d69b4ab8aef.md)**collection. The  **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** collection includes all the items listed in the **Don't correct** box on the **INitial CAps** tab in the **AutoCorrect Exceptions** dialog box.

## Remarks

Use  **TwoInitialCapsExceptions**(Index), where Index is the initial capital exception name or the index number, to return a single  **TwoInitialCapsException** object. The following example deletes the initial-capital exception named "KMenu."


```
AutoCorrect.TwoInitialCapsExceptions("KMenu").Delete
```

The index number represents the position of the initial-capital exception in the  **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** collection. The following example displays the name of the first item in the **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** collection.




```
MsgBox AutoCorrect.TwoInitialCapsExceptions(1).Name
```

If the  **TwoInitialCapsAutoAdd**property is  **True**, words are automatically added to the list of initial-capital exceptions. Use the  **Add**method to add an item to the  **TwoInitialCapsExceptions** collection. The following example adds "INdustry" to the list of initial-capital exceptions.




```
AutoCorrect.TwoInitialCapsExceptions.Add Name:="INdustry"
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [TwoInitialCapsException Object Members](15e10c9b-0980-8cd3-5d95-be27b6763fd3.md)
