
# CoAuthUpdates Object(Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  [CoAuthUpdate](c00e5029-2e4b-97c0-33d3-86fdc53df535.md) objects that represent the updates that were merged into the document at the last explicit save.

## Remarks

When a document with co-authoring enabled is edited by more than one author, changes to the document by one author are pushed to other authors' versions of the document using updates. When a co-author performs an explicit document save (by pressing  **CTRL** + **S**, for example), changes made by other co-authors are merged into the document as updates. The  **CoAuthUpdates** collection contains all the changes that were merged into the document, where each change is a single update.

The contents of the  **CoAuthUpdates** collection remains the same until a co-author performs another explicit document save. When the co-author saves the document again, if there are no new changes from other co-authors that are merged into the document, the **CoAuthUpdates** collection retains the same updates that were merged at the previous explicit save. If there are new changes that are merged into the document, the **CoAuthUpdates** collection contains the new updates for the document.


## Example

The following code example gets the number of the latest updates that were merged into the document at the last explicit save.


```
Dim countOfUpdates As Integer 
 
countOfUpdates = ActiveDocument.CoAuthoring.Updates.Count 
 
MsgBox "The number of updates is " &amp; countOfUpdates
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [CoAuthUpdates Object Members](052ea569-bf8a-4ca5-eb02-a2f955308b73.md)
