
# Application.FeatureInstall Property (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets how Microsoft Word handles calls to methods and properties that require features not yet installed. Read/write  **MsoFeatureInstall**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **FeatureInstall**

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents an  ** [Application](d1cf6f8f-4e88-bf01-93b4-90a83f79cb44.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use the  **msoFeatureInstallOnDemandWithUI** constant to prevent users from believing that the application isn't responding while a feature is being installed. Use the **msoFeatureInstallNone** constant if you want the developer to be the only one who can install features.

If you have the  **DisplayAlerts** property set to **False**, users will not be prompted to install new features even if the  **FeatureInstall** property is set to **msoFeatureInstallOnDemand**. If the  **DisplayAlerts** property is set to **True**, an installation progress meter will appear if the  **FeatureInstall** property is set to **msoFeatureInstallOnDemand**.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example activates a new instance of Microsoft Excel and checks the value of the  **FeatureInstall** property. If the property is set to **msoFeatureInstallNone**, the code displays a message box that asks the user whether they want to change the property setting. If the user responds "Yes," the property is set to  **msoFeatureInstallOnDemand**. 


 **Note**  For this example to function properly, you must add a reference to Microsoft Excel Object Library.


```
Dim ExcelApp As New Excel.Application 
Dim intReply As Integer 
 
With ExcelApp 
 If .FeatureInstall = msoFeatureInstallNone Then 
 intReply = MsgBox("Uninstalled features for " _ 
 &amp; "this application may " &amp; vbCrLf _ 
 &amp; "cause a run-time error when called." _ 
 &amp; vbCrLf &amp; vbCrLf _ 
 &amp; "Would you like to change this setting" &amp; vbCrLf _ 
 &amp; "to automatically install missing features?", _ 
 vbYesNo, "Feature Install Setting") 
 If intReply = vbYes Then 
 .FeatureInstall = msoFeatureInstallOnDemand 
 End If 
 End If 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](d1cf6f8f-4e88-bf01-93b4-90a83f79cb44.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](71669f1e-65f1-b0f1-b67d-355dfdbebe50.md)
