
# Range.DetectLanguage Method (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Analyzes the specified text to determine the language that it is written in.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **DetectLanguage**

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents a  ** [Range](15a7a1c4-5f3f-5b6e-60e9-29688de3f274.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The results of the  **DetectLanguage** method are stored in the **LanguageID**property on a character-by-character basis. To read the  ** [LanguageID](8af15ba5-19f0-2a65-e44a-a9fed55f8239.md)** property, you must first specify a selection or range of text.



When applied to a  **Document** object, the **DetectLanguage** method checks all available text in the document (headers, footers, text boxes, and so forth). If the specified text contains a partial sentence, the selection or range is extended to the end of the sentence.



If the  **DetectLanguage** method has already been applied to the specified text, the **LanguageDetected**property is set to  **True**. To reevaulate the language of the specified text, you must first set the  ** [LanguageDetected](18eba980-a599-e6f0-7d73-bee6da0474be.md)** property to **False**.



For more information about automatic language detection, see About automatic language detection .




## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example checks the active document to determine the language it's written in and then displays the result.


```
With ActiveDocument 
 If .LanguageDetected = True Then 
 x = MsgBox("This document has already " _ 
 &amp; "been checked. Do you want to check " _ 
 &amp; "it again?", vbYesNo) 
 If x = vbYes Then 
 .LanguageDetected = False 
 .DetectLanguage 
 End If 
 Else 
 .DetectLanguage 
 End If 
 If .Range.LanguageID = wdEnglishUS Then 
 MsgBox "This is a U.S. English document." 
 Else 
 MsgBox "This is not a U.S. English document." 
 End If 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Range Object](15a7a1c4-5f3f-5b6e-60e9-29688de3f274.md)
#### Other resources


 [Range Object Members](3c4a36d9-2a80-5aaf-827b-275a52bfa193.md)
