
# CanvasShapes.Range Method (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns a  **ShapeRange** object.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Range**( **_Index_**)

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents a  ** [CanvasShapes](f4b37915-7fde-2a21-0df0-fc3c97983900.md)** collection.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Index|Required| **Variant**|Specifies which shapes are to be included in the specified range. Can be an integer that specifies the index number of a shape within the  **Shapes** collection, a string that specifies the name of a shape, or a array that contains integers or strings.|

### Return Value

ShapeRange


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Character position values begin with 0 (zero) at the beginning of the document. All characters are counted, including nonprinting characters. Hidden characters are counted even if they're not displayed.

 **ShapeRange** objects don't include **InlineShape** objects. An **InlineShape** object is equivalent to a character and is positioned as a character within a range of text. **Shape** objects are anchored to a range of text (the selection, by default), but they can be positioned anywhere on the page. A **Shape** object will always appear on the same page as the range it is anchored to.

Most operations that you can do with a  **Shape** object you can also do with a **ShapeRange** object that contains a single shape. Some operations, when performed on a **ShapeRange** object that contains multiple shapes, produce an error.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example selects and deletes the shapes in the first shape in the active document. This example assumes that the first shape is a canvas shape.


```
Sub CanvasShapeRange() 
 Dim rngCanvasShapes As Range 
 Set rngCanvasShapes = ActiveDocument.Shapes(1).CanvasItems.Range(1) 
 rngCanvasShapes.Select 
 rngCanvasShapes.Delete 
End Sub 

```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [CanvasShapes Collection](f4b37915-7fde-2a21-0df0-fc3c97983900.md)
#### Other resources


 [CanvasShapes Object Members](77b4d2f5-0ced-82ec-68ee-895c398d0c9f.md)
