
# AutoTextEntries Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [AutoCorrectEntry](33173958-42eb-00ef-7f37-41f95ed47f87.md)**objects that represent the AutoText entries in a template. The  **AutoTextEntries** collection includes all the entries listed on the **AutoText** tab in the **AutoCorrect** dialog box.

## Remarks

Use the  **AutoTextEntries** property to return the **AutoTextEntries** collection. The following example determines whether an ** [AutoTextEntry](37a2cf05-ae07-d411-9bd8-ab4726b303a9.md)** object named "test" is in the **AutoTextEntries** collection.


```
For Each i In NormalTemplate.AutoTextEntries 
 If LCase(i.Name) = "test" Then MsgBox "AutoText entry exists" 
Next i
```

Use the  ** [Add](7ffa87f9-a23c-1847-3907-84c95f2b7f73.md)**method to add an AutoText entry to the  **AutoTextEntries** collection. The following example adds an AutoText entry named "Blue" based on the text of the selection.




```
NormalTemplate.AutoTextEntries.Add Name:="Blue", _ 
 Range:=Selection.Range
```

Use  **AutoTextEntries**(index), where index is the AutoText entry name or index number, to return a single  **AutoTextEntry** object. You must exactly match the spelling (but not necessarily the capitalization) of the name, as it is shown on the **AutoText** tab in the **AutoCorrect** dialog box. The following example sets the value of an existing AutoText entry named "cName."




```
NormalTemplate.AutoTextEntries("cName").Value = _ 
 "The Johnson Company"
```

The following example displays the name and value of the first AutoText entry in the template attached to the active document.




```
Set myTemplate = ActiveDocument.AttachedTemplate 
MsgBox "Name = " &amp; myTemplate.AutoTextEntries(1).Name &amp; vbCr _ 
 &amp; "Value " &amp; myTemplate.AutoTextEntries(1).Value
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [AutoTextEntries Object Members](7e3291e0-1d58-ca35-ebe6-974ee60358e2.md)
