
# TextEffectFormat.RotatedChars Property (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **MsoTrue** if characters in the specified WordArt are rotated 90 degrees relative to the WordArt's bounding shape. **MsoFalse** if characters in the specified WordArt retain their original orientation relative to the bounding shape. Read/write **MsoTriState**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **RotatedChars**

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents a  ** [TextEffectFormat](b274e5be-ed5b-7d63-aa4b-1d67b63e7c0b.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If the WordArt has horizontal text, setting the  **RotatedChars** property to **True** rotates the characters 90 degrees counterclockwise. If the WordArt has vertical text, setting the **RotatedChars** property to **False** rotates the characters 90 degrees clockwise. Use the **ToggleVerticalText**method to switch between horizontal and vertical text flow.

The  **Flip**method and  **Rotation**property of the  **Shape**object and the  **RotatedChars** property and **ToggleVerticalText** method of the **TextEffectFormat** object all affect the character orientation and direction of text flow in a ** [Shape](604029ce-9b2f-9748-5d4e-b458796fa2f0.md)** object that represents WordArt. You may have to experiment to find out how to combine the effects of these properties and methods to get the result you want.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example adds WordArt that contains the text "Test" to myDocument and rotates the characters 90 degrees counterclockwise.


```
Set myDocument = ActiveDocument 
Set newWordArt = _ 
 myDocument.Shapes.AddTextEffect( _ 
 PresetTextEffect:=msoTextEffect1, _ 
 Text:="Test", _ 
 FontName:="Arial Black", FontSize:=36, _ 
 FontBold:=False, FontItalic:=False, Left:=10, Top:=10) 
newWordArt.TextEffect.RotatedChars = True
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [TextEffectFormat Object](b274e5be-ed5b-7d63-aa4b-1d67b63e7c0b.md)
#### Other resources


 [TextEffectFormat Object Members](4bf3281f-19e3-f618-08ad-4b8093a25e6c.md)
