
# TabStop Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single tab stop. The  **TabStop** object is a member of the ** [TabStops](2d3bcac4-db8c-05fe-1cc1-5d90774f84fb.md)**collection. The  **TabStops** collection represents all the custom and default tab stops in a paragraph or group of paragraphs.

## Remarks

Use  **TabStops**(Index), where Index is the location of the tab stop (in points) or the index number, to return a single  **TabStop** object. Tab stops are indexed numerically from left to right along the ruler. The following example removes the first custom tab stop from the selected paragraphs.


```
Selection.Paragraphs.TabStops(1).Clear
```

The following example adds a right-aligned tab stop positioned at 2 inches to the selected paragraphs.




```
Selection.Paragraphs.TabStops(InchesToPoints(2)) _ 
 .Alignment = wdAlignTabRight
```

Use the  **Add**method to add a tab stop. The following example adds two tab stops to the selected paragraphs. The first tab stop is a left-aligned tab with a dotted tab leader positioned at 1 inch (72 points). The second tab stop is centered and is positioned at 2 inches.




```
With Selection.Paragraphs.TabStops 
 .Add Position:=InchesToPoints(1), _ 
 Leader:=wdTabLeaderDots, Alignment:=wdAlignTabLeft 
 .Add Position:=InchesToPoints(2), Alignment:=wdAlignTabCenter 
End With
```

You can also add a tab stop by specifying a location with the  **TabStops** property. The following example adds a right-aligned tab stop positioned at 2 inches to the selected paragraphs.




```
Selection.Paragraphs.TabStops(InchesToPoints(2)) _ 
 .Alignment = wdAlignTabRight
```


 **Note**   Set the **DefaultTabStop**property to adjust the spacing of default tab stops.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [TabStop Object Members](b63dd3c2-df0a-6bdc-7fce-1ee0aaee0bcb.md)
