
# Using ActiveX Controls on Word Documents

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Word 2013_

You can add controls to your documents to create interactive documents, such as online forms. For general information about adding and working with controls, see  [Using ActiveX controls on a document](fe3a830e-c734-1412-6955-4a67b6ec9eed.md) and [Creating a custom dialog box](94d25080-db89-3d04-e018-5e90ca0a66d2.md).

Remember the following points when you work with controls on documents:

- You can add ActiveX controls to the text layer or drawing layer of the document. To add a control to the drawing layer, click the control on the  **Control Toolbox**. To add a control to the text layer, hold down the SHIFT key while you click a control on the  **Control Toolbox**.
    
- A control that you add to the text layer is an  ** [InlineShape](a8fd110a-4aa7-c4b9-1559-32022787d955.md)** object, to which you gain access programmatically through the ** [InlineShapes](88c632b2-80de-c96a-8879-a98461b38bd0.md)** collection. A control that you add to the drawing layer is a ** [Shape](604029ce-9b2f-9748-5d4e-b458796fa2f0.md)** object, to which you gain access programmatically through the ** [Shapes](0907eed3-886e-8e73-0e5e-71f4b37ddd5b.md)** collection.
    
- Controls in the text layer are treated like characters and are positioned as characters within a line of text.
    
- In design mode, ActiveX controls in the drawing layer are visible only in print layout view or Web layout view.
    
- If you want the user to use the ActiveX controls but not change the layout of the document, protect the document by clicking the  **Protect Form** button on the **Forms** toolbar.
    
- Microsoft Word implements the  **LostFocus** and **GotFocus** events for ActiveX controls on a document. The other events listed in the **Procedure** drop-down list box are documented in Microsoft Forms Help. For more information about using events with ActiveX controls, see the [Control and dialog box events](7884bae3-caa5-79a9-a4a2-c58a6ccb42d2.md) and the [Using events with ActiveX controls](a344a964-e5f8-b6f1-e1eb-3c2d1fea9fb6.md) topics.
    
- If you want to add form fields instead of ActiveX controls to your document to create an online form, use the  **Forms** toolbar.
    
- The  **Me** keyword in an event procedure for an ActiveX control on a document refers to the document, not to the control.
    
Writing event code for controls on documents is very similar to writing event code for controls on forms. The following  **SpinUp** and **SpinDown** event procedures change the value of the **TextBox** control named "TextBox1" on the document where the **SpinButton** control named "SpinButton1" resides. The text box value is decreased by one when the user clicks the lower spin-button arrow or the left spin-button arrow and is incremented by one when the user clicks the upper spin-button arrow or the right spin-button arrow.



```
Private Sub SpinButton1_SpinDown() 
 Me.TextBox1.Value = Me.TextBox1.Value - 1 
End Sub
```




```
Private Sub SpinButton1_SpinUp() 
 Me.TextBox1.Value = Me.TextBox1.Value + 1 
End Sub
```

The following  **Click** event procedure switches to print view and sets the magnification to 100 percent for the document where the command button named "cmdChangeView" resides.



```
Private Sub cmdChangeView_Click() 
 With Me.ActiveWindow.View 
 .Type = wdPrintView 
 .Zoom.Percentage = 100 
 End With 
End Sub
```

