
# ProofreadingErrors Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of spelling and grammatical errors for the specified document or range.

## Remarks

Use the  **SpellingErrors** or **GrammaticalErrors** property to return the **ProofreadingErrors** collection. The following example counts the spelling and grammatical errors in the selection and displays the results in a message box.


```
Set pr1 = Selection.Range.SpellingErrors 
 sc = pr1.Count 
Set pr2 = Selection.Range.GrammaticalErrors 
 gc = pr2.Count 
Msgbox "Spelling errors: " &amp; sc &amp; vbCr _ 
 &amp; "Grammatical errors: " &amp; gc
```

Use  **SpellingErrors**(Index), where Index is the index number, to return a single spelling error (represented by a  **Range** object). The following example finds the second spelling error in the selection and then selects it.




```
Set myRange = Selection.Range.SpellingErrors(2) 
myRange.Select
```

Use  **GrammarErrors**(Index), where Index is the index number, to return a single grammatical error (represented by a  **Range** object). The following example returns the sentence that contains the first grammatical error in the selection.




```
Set myRange = Selection.Range.GrammaticalErrors(1) 
Msgbox myRange.Text
```

The  **Count** property for this collection in a document returns the number of items in the main story only. To count items in other stories use the collection with the **Range** object. If all the words in the document or range are spelled correctly and are grammatically correct, the **Count** property for the **ProofreadingErrors** object returns 0 (zero) and the **SpellingChecked** and **GrammarChecked** properties return **True**.


 **Note**  There is no ProofreadingError object; instead, each item in the  **ProofreadingErrors** collection is a **Range** object that represents one spelling or grammatical error.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [ProofreadingErrors Object Members](eb5c657f-acba-196a-0c45-8c31d975a470.md)
