
# AddIn Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single add-in, either installed or not installed. The  **AddIn** object is a member of the ** [AddIns](acf58e58-d3f6-23cf-677b-4780f7cbc24d.md)** collection. The **AddIns** collection contains all the add-ins available to Microsoft Word, regardless of whether they are currently loaded. The **AddIns** collection includes global templates or Word add-in libraries (WLLs) displayed in the **Templates and Add-ins** dialog box.

## Remarks

Use  ** [AddIns](8e464524-1304-6a4a-f2f0-5f652d5c8123.md)**( _index_), where  _index_ is the add-in name or index number, to return a single **AddIn** object. You must exactly match the spelling (but not necessarily the capitalization) of the name, as it is shown in the **Templates and Add-Ins** dialog box. The following example loads the Letter.dot template as a global template.


```
AddIns("Letter.dot").Installed = True
```

The index number represents the position of the add-in in the list of add-ins in the  **Templates and Add-ins** dialog box. The following instruction displays the path of the first available add-in.




```
If Addins.Count >= 1 Then MsgBox Addins(1).Path
```

The following example creates a list of add-ins at the beginning of the active document. The list contains the name, path, and installed state of each available add-in.




```
With ActiveDocument.Range(Start:=0, End:=0) 
 .InsertAfter "Name" &amp; vbTab &amp; "Path" &amp; vbTab &amp; "Installed" 
 .InsertParagraphAfter 
 For Each oAddIn In AddIns 
 .InsertAfter oAddIn.Name &amp; vbTab &amp; oAddIn.Path &amp; vbTab _ 
 &amp; oAddIn.Installed 
 .InsertParagraphAfter 
 Next oAddIn 
 .ConvertToTable 
End With
```

Use the  ** [Add](09a7ba59-94a6-f6b0-a012-7d5aaa5b5b12.md)** method to add an add-in to the list of available add-ins and (optionally) install it using the Install argument.




```
AddIns.Add FileName:="C:\Templates\Other\Letter.dot", Install:=True
```

To install an add-in shown in the list of available add-ins, use the  ** [Installed](5bca123c-c75f-23f0-15d1-cf9f662de8da.md)** property.




```
AddIns("Letter.dot").Installed = True
```


 **Note**  Use the  ** [Compiled](812402c2-8755-cb40-beb8-e46cfba3e0ea.md)** property to determine whether an **AddIn** object is a template or a WLL.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [AddIn Object Members](7bffb4a9-f948-fc97-342e-d4d46fa48913.md)
