
# ListTemplates Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **ListTemplate**objects that represent the seven predefined list formats on each tab in the  **Bullets and Numbering** dialog box.

## Remarks

Use the  **ListTemplates** property to return the **ListTemplates** collection. The following example displays a message with the level status (single or multiple-level) for each list template in the active document.


```
For Each lt In ActiveDocument.ListTemplates 
 MsgBox "This is a multiple-level list template - " _ 
 &amp; lt.OutlineNumbered 
Next LT
```

Use the  **Add**method to add a list template to the collection in the specified document or template. The following example adds a new list template to the active document and applies it to the selection.




```
Set myLT = ActiveDocument.ListTemplates.Add 
Selection.Range.ListFormat.ApplyListTemplate ListTemplate:=myLT
```

Use  **ListTemplates**(Index), where Index is a number 1 through 7, to return a single list template from a list gallery. The following example sets an object variable equal to the list template used in the third list in the active document, and then it applies that list template to the selection.




```
Set mylt = ActiveDocument.ListTemplates(3) 
Selection.Range.ListFormat.ApplyListTemplate ListTemplate:=mylt
```


 **Note**  Some properties and methods —  **Convert** and **Add**, for example — won't work with list templates that are accessed from a list gallery. You can modify these list templates, but you cannot change their list gallery type ( **wdBulletGallery**,  **wdNumberGallery**, or  **wdOutlineNumberGallery**).

To see whether the specified list template contains the formatting built into Word, use the  **Modified**property with the  **ListGallery** object. To reset formatting to the original list format, use the **Reset**method for the  **ListGallery** object.

After you have returned a  ** [ListTemplate](d5e339f7-5798-305b-a6b0-6b572d9112f4.md)** object, use **ListLevels**(Index), where Index is a number from 1 through 9, to return a single  **ListLevel** object. With a **ListLevel** object, you have access to all the formatting properties for the specified list level, such as **Alignment**,  **Font**,  **NumberFormat**,  **NumberPosition**,  **NumberStyle**, and  **TrailingCharacter**.

Use the  **Convert**method to convert a multiple-level list template to a single-level template.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [ListTemplates Object Members](84ac5042-9c95-927d-8a85-adedb8178f4a.md)
