
# FirstLetterExceptions Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **FirstLetterException** objects that represent the abbreviations excluded from automatic correction.

## Remarks

The first character following a period is automatically capitalized when the  **CorrectSentenceCaps** property is set to **True**. The  **FirstLetterExceptions** collection includes exceptions to this behavior (for example, abbreviations such as "addr." and "apt.").

Use the  **FirstLetterExceptions** property to return the **FirstLetterExceptions** collection. The following example deletes the abbreviation "addr." if it is included in the **FirstLetterExceptions** collection.




```
For Each aExcept In AutoCorrect.FirstLetterExceptions 
 If aExcept.Name = "addr." Then aExcept.Delete 
Next aExcept
```

The following example creates a new document and inserts all the AutoCorrect first-letter exceptions into it.




```
Documents.Add 
For Each aExcept In AutoCorrect.FirstLetterExceptions 
 With Selection 
 .InsertAfter aExcept.Name 
 .InsertParagraphAfter 
 .Collapse Direction:=wdCollapseEnd 
 End With 
Next aExcept
```

Use the  **Add** method to add an abbreviation to the list of first-letter exceptions. The following example adds the abbreviation "addr." to this list.




```
AutoCorrect.FirstLetterExceptions.Add Name:="addr."
```

Use  **FirstLetterExceptions**(Index), where Index is the abbreviation or the index number, to return a single  ** [FirstLetterException](e365a683-010a-a074-5563-f0cac1f410b2.md)** object. The following example deletes the abbreviation "appt." from the **FirstLetterExceptions** collection.




```
AutoCorrect.FirstLetterExceptions("appt.").Delete
```

The following example displays the name of the first item in the  **FirstLetterExceptions** collection.




```
MsgBox AutoCorrect.FirstLetterExceptions(1).Name
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [FirstLetterExceptions Object Members](61ca9a3d-715d-87ae-b353-a79f374addb4.md)
