
# Borders Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [Border](be48c020-b86c-c004-ce1c-76d9edae9791.md)**objects that represent the borders of an object.

## Remarks

Use the  **Borders** property to return the **Borders** collection. The following example applies the default border around the first paragraph in the active document.


```
ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(1).Borders.Enable = True
```

 ** [Border](be48c020-b86c-c004-ce1c-76d9edae9791.md)** objects cannot be added to the **Borders** collection. The number of members in the **Borders** collection is finite and varies depending on the type of object. For example, a table has six elements in the **Borders** collection, whereas a paragraph has four.

Use  **Borders**(index), where index identifies the border, to return a single  **Border** object. Index can be one of the ** [WdBorderType](7d62d139-430b-0dea-aa7f-31d1b4fee10d.md)** constants. Some of the **WdBorderType** constants may not be available to you, depending on the language support (U.S. English, for example) that you have selected or installed.

Use the  ** [LineStyle](1e95d9b9-1293-753a-efbd-8fc95e9dd8b0.md)**property to apply a border line to a  **Border** object. The following example applies a double-line border below the first paragraph in the active document.




```
With ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(1).Borders(wdBorderBottom) 
 .LineStyle = wdLineStyleDouble 
 .LineWidth = wdLineWidth025pt 
End With
```

The following example applies a single-line border around the first character in the selection.




```
With Selection.Characters(1) 
 .Font.Size = 36 
 .Borders.Enable = True 
End With
```

The following example adds an art border around each page in the first section.




```
For Each aBorder In ActiveDocument.Sections(1).Borders 
 With aBorder 
 .ArtStyle = wdArtSeattle 
 .ArtWidth = 20 
 End With 
Next aBorder
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Borders Object Members](7c391c32-ebf4-9ca7-a740-0205852f1bab.md)
