
# ShapeRange Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a shape range, which is a set of shapes on a document. A shape range can contain as few as one shape or as many as all the shapes in the document. 

## Remarks

You can include whichever shapes you want — chosen from among all the shapes in the document or all the shapes in the selection — to construct a shape range. For example, you could construct a  **ShapeRange** collection that contains the first three shapes in a document, all the selected shapes in a document, or all the freeform shapes in a document.Most operations that you can do with a **Shape** object, you can also do with a **ShapeRange** object that contains only one shape. Some operations, when performed on a **ShapeRange** object that contains more than one shape, will cause an error.

Use  **Range**(Index), where Index is the name or index number of the shape or an array that contains either names or index numbers of shapes, to return a  **ShapeRange** collection that represents a set of shapes on a document. You can use Visual Basic's **Array** function to construct an array of names or index numbers. The following example sets the fill pattern for shapes one and three on the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Shapes.Range(Array(1, 3)).Fill.Patterned _ 
 msoPatternHorizontalBrick
```

The following example selects the shapes named "Oval 4" and "Rectangle 5" on the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Shapes.Range(Array("Oval 4", "Rectangle 5")).Select
```

Although you can use the  **Range**method to return any number of shapes, it is simpler to use the  **Item**method if you want to return only a single member of the collection. For example,  `Shapes(1)`is simpler than `Shapes.Range(1)`.

Use  **ShapeRange**(Index), where Index is the name or the index number, to return a  **Shape** object that represents a shape within a selection. The following example sets the fill for the first shape in the selection, assuming that the selection contains at least one shape.




```
Selection.ShapeRange(1).Fill.ForeColor.RGB = RGB(255, 0, 0)
```

This example selects all the shapes in the first section of the active document.




```
Set myRange = ActiveDocument.Sections(1).Range 
myRange.ShapeRange.Select
```

Use the  **Align**,  **Distribute**, or  **ZOrder**method to position a set of shapes relative to each other or relative to the document.

Use the  **Group**,  **Regroup**, or  **UnGroup**method to create and work with a single shape formed from a shape range. The  **GroupItems** property for a **Shape** object returns the **GroupShapes**object, which represents all the shapes that were grouped to form one shape.

The recorder always uses the  **ShapeRange**property when recording shapes.


 **Note**  A  **ShapeRange** object doesn't include **InlineShape**objects.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [ShapeRange Object Members](eb882d13-d724-26e9-7e6d-2af55e42bba1.md)
