
# ParagraphFormat Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents all the formatting for a paragraph.

## Remarks

Use the  **Format**property to return the  **ParagraphFormat** object for a paragraph or paragraphs. The **ParagraphFormat**property returns the  **ParagraphFormat** object for a selection, range, style, **Find** object, or **Replacement** object. The following example centers the third paragraph in the active document.


```
ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(3).Format.Alignment = _ 
 wdAlignParagraphCenter
```

The following example finds the next double-spaced paragraph after the selection.




```
With Selection.Find 
 .ClearFormatting 
 .ParagraphFormat.LineSpacingRule = wdLineSpaceDouble 
 .Text = "" 
 .Forward = True 
 .Wrap = wdFindContinue 
End With 
Selection.Find.Execute
```

You can use Visual Basic's  **New** keyword to create a new, standalone **ParagraphFormat** object. The following example creates a **ParagraphFormat** object, sets some formatting properties for it, and then applies all of its properties to the first paragraph in the active document.




```
Dim myParaF As New ParagraphFormat 
myParaF.Alignment = wdAlignParagraphCenter 
myParaF.Borders.Enable = True 
ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(1).Format = myParaF
```

You can also make a standalone copy of an existing  **ParagraphFormat** object by using the **Duplicate**property. The following example duplicates the paragraph formatting of the first paragraph in the active document and stores the formatting in  _myDup_. The example changes the left indent of  _myDup_ to 1 inch, creates a new document, inserts text into the document, and applies the paragraph formatting of _myDup_ to the text.




```
Set myDup = ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(1).Format.Duplicate 
myDup.LeftIndent = InchesToPoints(1) 
Documents.Add 
Selection.InsertAfter "This is a new paragraph." 
Selection.Paragraphs.Format = myDup
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [ParagraphFormat Object Members](d34122e7-adfb-dd34-eb1d-cd62b20a83ff.md)
