
# Selection.StartIsActive Property (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** if the beginning of the selection is active. Read/write **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **StartIsActive**

 _expression_An expression that returns a  ** [Selection](7b574a91-c33e-ecfd-6783-6b7528b2ed8f.md)**object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If the selection is not collapsed to an insertion point, either the beginning or the end of the selection is active. The active end of the selection moves when you call the following methods:  ** [EndKey](4f27681c-1117-99c2-1aba-bd97082bb8ba.md)**,  ** [Extend](7f9108a1-9b23-bc45-61f5-49aca9979932.md)**(with the Characters argument),  ** [HomeKey](24264193-d610-acbc-b393-de41fd55e976.md)**,  ** [MoveDown](d3ea31e8-04a5-c342-24ca-c93ac1a1258e.md)**,  ** [MoveLeft](23c22588-e774-f70f-28ea-81b1a54c0dd5.md)**,  ** [MoveRight](fcac96c7-7189-87b2-d800-9d161edb1e09.md)**, and  ** [MoveUp](46993371-c916-06b5-a644-960f8a283536.md)**.

This property is equivalent to using the  ** [Flags](bca92e77-077c-57d0-3012-8c064e93f112.md)**property with the  **wdSelStartActive** constant. However, using the **Flags** property requires binary operations, which are more complicated than using the **StartIsActive** property.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example extends the current selection through the next two words. To make sure that any currently selected text stays selected during the extension, the end of the selection is made active first. (For example, if the first three words of this paragraph were selected but the start of the selection were active, the  **MoveRight** method call would cancel the selection of the first two words.)


```
With Selection 
 .StartIsActive = False 
 .MoveRight Unit:=wdWord, Count:=2, Extend:=wdExtend 
End With
```

Here is the same example using the  **Flags** property. This solution is problematic because you can only deactivate a **Flags** property setting by overwriting it with an unrelated value.




```
With Selection 
 If (.Flags And wdSelStartActive) = wdSelStartActive Then _ 
 .Flags = wdSelReplace 
 .MoveRight Unit:=wdWord, Count:=2, Extend:=wdExtend 
End With
```

Here is the same example using the  **MoveEnd**method, which eliminates the need to check which end of the selection is active.




```
With Selection 
 .MoveEnd Unit:=wdWord, Count:=2 
End With
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Selection Object](7b574a91-c33e-ecfd-6783-6b7528b2ed8f.md)
#### Other resources


 [Selection Object Members](71e67a43-d40a-ad9a-8ef2-c5c487733e0d.md)
