
# Revisions Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [Revision](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/f8d9db83-86f7-4830-096d-5d15368ab6b1%28Office.15%29.aspx)** objects that represent the changes marked with revision marks in a range or document.

## Remarks

Use the  **Revisions** property to return the **Revisions** collection. The following code example displays the number of revisions in the main text story.


```
MsgBox ActiveDocument.Revisions.Count
```

The following code example accepts all the revisions in the selection.




```
For Each myRev In Selection.Range.Revisions 
 myRev.Accept 
Next myRev
```

The following code example accepts all the revisions in the first paragraph in the selection.




```
Set myRange = Selection.Paragraphs(1).Range 
myRange.Revisions.AcceptAll
```

The  **Add** method is not available for the **Revisions** collection. **Revision** objects are added when change tracking is enabled. Set the **TrackRevisions** property to **True** to track revisions made to the document text. The following code example enables revision tracking in the active document and then inserts "The " before the selection.




```
ActiveDocument.TrackRevisions = True 
Selection.InsertBefore "The "
```

Use  **Revisions**(Index), where Index is the index number, to return a single  **Revision** object. The index number represents the position of the revision in the range or document. The following code example displays the author name for the first revision in the first section.




```
MsgBox ActiveDocument.Sections(1).Range.Revisions(1).Author
```

The  **Count** property for this collection in a document returns the number of items in the main story only. To count items in other stories use the collection with the **Range** object.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Revisions Object Members](e1246cc8-0a2d-2bf9-999c-d9c5f35ac157.md)
