
# Bookmarks Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [Bookmark](be6b0c7b-60ca-97e7-ef19-6de335da3197.md)**objects that represent the bookmarks in the specified selection, range, or document.

## Remarks

Use the  **Bookmarks** property to return the **Bookmarks** collection for a document, range, or selection. The following example ensures that the bookmark named "temp" exists in the active document before selecting the bookmark.


```
If ActiveDocument.Bookmarks.Exists("temp") = True Then 
 ActiveDocument.Bookmarks("temp").Select 
End If
```

Use the  ** [Add](647795da-d7e2-7b6f-c412-5b684ec962a2.md)**method to set a bookmark for a range in a document. The following example marks the selection by adding a bookmark named "temp".




```
ActiveDocument.Bookmarks.Add Name:="temp", Range:=Selection.Range
```

Use  **Bookmarks**(index), where index is the bookmark name or index number, to return a single  **Bookmark** object. You must exactly match the spelling (but not necessarily the capitalization) of the bookmark name. The following example selects the bookmark named "temp" in the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Bookmarks("temp").Select
```

The index number represents the position of the bookmark in the  ** [Selection](7b574a91-c33e-ecfd-6783-6b7528b2ed8f.md)** or ** [Range](15a7a1c4-5f3f-5b6e-60e9-29688de3f274.md)** object. For the ** [Document](8d83487a-2345-a036-a916-971c9db5b7fb.md)** object, the index number represents the position of the bookmark in the alphabetical list of bookmarks in the **Bookmarks** dialog box (click **Name** to sort the list of bookmarks alphabetically). The following example displays the name of the second bookmark in the **Bookmarks** collection.




```
MsgBox ActiveDocument.Bookmarks(2).Name
```

Remarks

The  ** [ShowHidden](35f9a36c-ea29-93f0-1b39-c52dd3718ee8.md)**property effects the number of elements in the  **Bookmarks** collection. If **ShowHidden** is **True**, hidden bookmarks are included in the  **Bookmarks** collection.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Bookmarks Object Members](41ab3642-f394-061a-294d-09a9b6abd333.md)
