
# InlineShapes Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **InlineShape**objects that represent all the inline shapes in a document, range, or selection.

## Remarks

Use the  **InlineShapes** property to return the **InlineShapes** collection. The following example converts each inline shape in the active document to a **Shape** object.


```
For Each iShape In ActiveDocument.InlineShapes 
 iShape.ConvertToShape 
Next iShape
```

Use the  **New**method to create a new picture as an inline shape. You can use the  **AddPicture**and  **AddOLEObject**methods to add pictures or OLE objects and link them to a source file. Use the  **AddOLEControl**method to add an ActiveX control.

 **Shape** objects are anchored to a range of text but are free-floating and can be positioned anywhere on the page. You can use the **ConvertToInlineShape**method and the  **ConvertToShape**method to convert shapes from one type to the other. You can convert only pictures, OLE objects, and ActiveX controls to inline shapes.

The  **Count** property for this collection in a document returns the number of items in the main story only. To count items in other stories use the collection with the **Range** object.

When you open a document created in an earlier version of Word, pictures are converted to inline shapes.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [InlineShapes Object Members](b579615b-f917-3d70-19da-1604e776fd0a.md)
