
# WebOptions.OrganizeInFolder Property (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** if all supporting files, such as background textures and graphics, are organized in a separate folder when you save the specified document as a Web page. **False** if supporting files are saved in the same folder as the Web page. The default value is **True**. Read/write  **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **OrganizeInFolder**

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents a  ** [WebOptions](658ae89d-3f92-067b-1309-7fc90b257111.md)** collection.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The new folder is created in the folder where you have saved the Web page and is named after the document. If long file names are used, a suffix is added to the folder name. The  ** [FolderSuffix](3661519e-3f69-8cff-3674-40921fd00709.md)**property returns wither the folder suffix for the language support you have selected or installed or the default folder suffix.

If you save a document that was previously saved with the  **OrganizeInFolder** property set to a different value, Microsoft Word automatically moves the supporting files into or out of the folder, as appropriate.

If you don't use long file names (that is, if the  ** [UseLongFileNames](25676029-e480-ac84-076a-95d3a41a800d.md)**property is set to  **False**), Microsoft Word automatically saves any supporting files in a separate folder. The files cannot be saved in the same folder as the Web page.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example specifies that all supporting files are saved in the same folder when the document is saved as a Web page.


```
Application.DefaultWebOptions.OrganizeInFolder = False
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [WebOptions Object](658ae89d-3f92-067b-1309-7fc90b257111.md)
#### Other resources


 [WebOptions Object Members](f4fb7f5c-d82a-3a94-bcae-9e9f1fb43872.md)
