
# Selection.InsertFormula Method (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Inserts an = (Formula) field that contains a formula at the selection.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Formula**( **_Formula_**,  **_NumberFormat_**)

 _expression_Required. A variable that represents a  ** [Selection](7b574a91-c33e-ecfd-6783-6b7528b2ed8f.md)** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Formula|Optional| **Variant**|The mathematical formula you want the = (Formula) field to evaluate. Spreadsheet-type references to table cells are valid. For example, "=SUM(A4:C4)" specifies the first three values in the fourth row. For more information about the = (Formula) field, see Field codes:= (Formula) field.|
|NumberFormat|Optional| **Variant**|A format for the result of the = (Formula) field. For information about the types of formats you can apply, see Numeric Picture (\#) field switch.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The formula replaces the selection, if the selection is not collapsed.

If you are using a spreadsheet application, such as Microsoft Office Excel, embedding all or part of a worksheet in a document is often easier than using the = (Formula) field in a table.

The Formula argument is optional only if the selection is in a cell and there is at least one cell that contains a value above or to the left of the cell that contains the insertion point. If the cells above the insertion point contain values, the inserted field is {=SUM(ABOVE)}; if the cells to the left of the insertion point contain values, the inserted field is {=SUM(LEFT)}. If both the cells above the insertion point and the cells to the left of it contain values, Microsoft Word uses the following rules to determine which SUM function to insert:


- If the cell immediately above the insertion point contains a value, Word inserts {=SUM(ABOVE)}.
    
- If the cell immediately above the insertion point does not contain a value but the cell immediately to the left of the insertion point does, Word inserts {=SUM(LEFT)}.
    
- If neither cell immediately above the insertion point nor the cell immediately below it contains a value, Word inserts {=SUM(ABOVE)}.
    
- If you don't specify  **Formula** and all the cells above and to the left of the insertion point are empty, using the = (Formula) field causes an error.
    

## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example creates a table with three rows and three columns at the beginning of the active document and then calculates the average of all the numbers in the first column.


```
Set MyRange = ActiveDocument.Range(0, 0) 
Set myTable = ActiveDocument.Tables.Add(MyRange, 3, 3) 
With myTable 
 .Cell(1, 1).Range.InsertAfter "100" 
 .Cell(2, 1).Range.InsertAfter "50" 
 .Cell(3, 1).Select 
End With 
Selection.InsertFormula Formula:="=Average(Above)"
```

The example inserts a formula field that is subtracted from a value represented by the bookmark named "GrossSales." The result is formatted with a dollar sign.




```
Selection.Collapse Direction:=wdCollapseStart 
Selection.InsertFormula Formula:= "=GrossSales-45,000.00", _ 
 NumberFormat:="$#,##0.00"
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Selection Object](7b574a91-c33e-ecfd-6783-6b7528b2ed8f.md)
#### Other resources


 [Selection Object Members](71e67a43-d40a-ad9a-8ef2-c5c487733e0d.md)
