
# InlineShape Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents an object in the text layer of a document. An inline shape can only be a picture, an OLE object, or an ActiveX control. The  **InlineShape** object is a member of the ** [InlineShapes](88c632b2-80de-c96a-8879-a98461b38bd0.md)**collection. The  **InlineShapes** collection contains all the shapes that appear inline in a document, range, or selection.

## Remarks

 **InlineShape** objects are treated like characters and are positioned as characters within a line of text.

Use  **InlineShapes**(Index), where Index is the index number, to return a single  **InlineShape** object. Inline shapes don't have names. The following example activates the first inline shape in the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.InlineShapes(1).Activate
```

 **Shape** objects are anchored to a range of text but are free-floating and can be positioned anywhere on the page. You can use the **ConvertToInlineShape**method and the  **ConvertToShape**method to convert shapes from one type to the other. You can convert only pictures, OLE objects, and ActiveX controls to inline shapes. Use the  **Type**property to return the type of inline shape: picture, linked picture, embedded OLE object, linked OLE object, or ActiveX control.


 **Note**  When you open a document created in an earlier version of Word, pictures are converted to inline shapes.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [InlineShape Object Members](f9de7adf-d761-3824-ba2e-c58c26de3d82.md)
