
# FileConverters Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **FileConverter**objects that represent all the file converters available for opening and saving files.

## Remarks

Use the  **FileConverters** property to return the **FileConverters** collection. The following example determines whether a WordPerfect 6.0 converter is available.


```
For Each conv In FileConverters 
 If conv.FormatName = "WordPerfect 6.x" Then 
 MsgBox "WordPerfect 6.0 converter is installed" 
 End if 
Next conv
```

The  **Add** method isn't available for the **FileConverters** collection. ** [FileConverter](41af2a9b-75cc-253d-4954-4fb42c88530f.md)** objects are added during installation of Microsoft Office or by installing supplemental converters.

Use  **FileConverters**(Index), where Index is a class name or index number, to return a single  ** [FileConverter](41af2a9b-75cc-253d-4954-4fb42c88530f.md)** object. The following example displays the extensions associated wtih the Microsoft Excel worksheet converter.




```
MsgBox FileConverters("MSBiff").Extensions
```

The index number represents the position of the file converter in the  **FileConverters** collection. The following example displays the format name of the first file converter.




```
MsgBox FileConverters(1).FormatName
```

File converters for saving documents are listed in the  **Save As** dialog box. File converters for opening documents appear in a dialog box if the **Confirm conversion at Open** check box is selected on the **General** tab in the **Options** dialog box ( **Tools** menu).


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [FileConverters Object Members](09a5b214-58e0-9b97-2ac3-e8a6f71dd657.md)
