
# Styles Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **Style**objects that represent both the built-in and user-defined styles in a document.

## Remarks

Use the  **Styles** property to return the **Styles** collection. The following example deletes all user-defined styles in the active document.


```
For Each sty In ActiveDocument.Styles 
 If sty.BuiltIn = False Then sty.Delete 
Next sty
```

Use the  **Add** method to create a new user-defined style and add it to the **Styles** collection. The following example adds a new character style named "Introduction" and makes it 12-point Arial, with bold and italic formatting. The example then applies this new character style to the selection.




```
Set myStyle = ActiveDocument.Styles.Add(Name:="Introduction", _ 
 Type:=wdStyleTypeCharacter) 
With myStyle.Font 
 .Bold = True 
 .Italic = True 
 .Name = "Arial" 
 .Size = 12 
End With 
Selection.Range.Style = "Introduction"
```

Use  **Styles**(Index), where Index is the style name, a  **WdBuiltinStyle** constant or index number, to return a single ** [Style](473f8f41-2cba-769e-c0da-441d9d85b009.md)** object. You must exactly match the spelling and spacing of the style name, but not necessarily its capitalization. The following example modifies the font of the user-defined style named "Color" in the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Styles("Color").Font.Name = "Arial"
```

The following example sets the built-in Heading 1 style to not be bold.




```
ActiveDocument.Styles(wdStyleHeading1).Font.Bold = False
```

The style index number represents the position of the style in the alphabetically sorted list of style names. Note that  `Styles(1)` is the first style in the alphabetical list. The following example displays the base style and style name of the first style in the **Styles** collection.




```
MsgBox "Base style= " _ 
 &amp; ActiveDocument.Styles(1).BaseStyle &amp; vbCr _ 
 &amp; "Style name= " &amp; ActiveDocument.Styles(1).NameLocal
```

The  **Styles** object is not available from the **Template** object. However, you can use the **OpenAsDocument**method to open a template as a document so that you can modify styles in the template. The following example changes the formatting of the Heading 1 style in the template attached to the active document.




```
Set aDoc = ActiveDocument.AttachedTemplate.OpenAsDocument 
With aDoc 
 .Styles(wdStyleHeading1).Font.Name = "Arial" 
 .Close SaveChanges:=wdSaveChanges 
End With
```

Use the  **OrganizerCopy**method to copy styles between documents and templates. Use the  **UpdateStyles**method to update the styles in the active document to match the style definitions in the attached template.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Styles Object Members](74bbb19f-2b6c-0e6d-4fef-4675b4df1722.md)
