
# Bookmark Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single bookmark in a document, selection, or range. The  **Bookmark** object is a member of the ** [Bookmarks](827bed64-3034-0eb4-401d-f117cdb98898.md)**collection. The  **Bookmarks** collection includes all the bookmarks listed in the **Bookmark** dialog box ( **Insert** menu).

## Remarks

Using the Bookmark Object

Use  **Bookmarks**(index), where index is the bookmark name or index number, to return a single  **Bookmark** object. You must exactly match the spelling (but not necessarily the capitalization) of the bookmark name. The following example selects the bookmark named "temp" in the active document.




```
ActiveDocument.Bookmarks("temp").Select
```

The index number represents the position of the bookmark in the  ** [Selection](7b574a91-c33e-ecfd-6783-6b7528b2ed8f.md)** or ** [Range](15a7a1c4-5f3f-5b6e-60e9-29688de3f274.md)** object. For the ** [Document](8d83487a-2345-a036-a916-971c9db5b7fb.md)** object, the index number represents the position of the bookmark in the alphabetical list of bookmarks in the **Bookmarks** dialog box (click **Name** to sort the list of bookmarks alphabetically). The following example displays the name of the second bookmark in the **Bookmarks** collection.




```
MsgBox ActiveDocument.Bookmarks(2).Name
```

Use the  ** [Add](647795da-d7e2-7b6f-c412-5b684ec962a2.md)**method to add a bookmark to a document range. The following example marks the selection by adding a bookmark named "temp."




```
ActiveDocument.Bookmarks.Add Name:="temp", Range:=Selection.Range
```

Remarks

Use the  **BookmarkID**property with a range or selection object to return the index number of a  **Bookmark** object in the **Bookmarks** collection. The following example displays the index number of the bookmark named "temp" in the active document.




```
MsgBox ActiveDocument.Bookmarks("temp").Range.BookmarkID
```

You can use  [predefined bookmarks](aa1c6d85-fe70-8f73-5682-ae6ada65be7c.md)with the  **Bookmarks** property. The following example sets the bookmark named "currpara" to the location marked by the predefined bookmark named "\Para".




```
ActiveDocument.Bookmarks("\Para").Copy "currpara"
```

Use the  ** [Exists](7a9df80d-1a52-022f-f234-336369b73fca.md)**method to determine whether a bookmark already exists in the selection, range, or document. The following example ensures that the bookmark named "temp" exists in the active document before selecting the bookmark.




```
If ActiveDocument.Bookmarks.Exists("temp") = True Then 
 ActiveDocument.Bookmarks("temp").Select 
End If
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Bookmark Object Members](c7ff0d52-501c-64ac-0034-b0e4ed3640f2.md)
