
# CoAuthUpdate Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a range of text that has been updated by a co-author.

## Remarks

When a document that has co-authoring enabled is edited by more than one author, changes to the document by one author are pushed to other authors' versions of the document by using updates. When a co-author performs an explicit document save (by pressing  **CTRL** + **S**, for example), changes made by other co-authors are merged into the document as updates. The  **CoAuthUpdates** collection contains all changes that were merged into the document, where each change is a single update represented by a **CoAuthUpdate** object.

The contents of the  **CoAuthUpdates** collection remains the same until a co-author performs another explicit document save. When the co-author saves the document again, if there are no new changes from other co-authors that are merged into the document, the **CoAuthUpdates** collection retains the same updates that were merged at the previous explicit save. If there are new changes that are merged into the document, the **CoAuthUpdates** collection contains the new updates for the document. Use a **CoAuthUpdate** object to retrieve an individual update from the ** [CoAuthUpdates](4a164415-0c6c-213b-da94-744e2394d1ef.md)** collection.


## Example

The following code example gets the associated text in the range of each  **CoAuthUpdate** object in the active document.


```
Dim caUpdate As CoAuthUpdate 
Dim strText As String 
 
For Each caUpdate In ActiveDocument.CoAuthoring.Updates 
    strText = caUpdate.Range.Text 
    MsgBox strText 
Next caUpdate
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [CoAuthUpdate Object Members](6771c7af-b532-c2d2-d5fb-917a3d0fcb1f.md)
