
# Application Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents the Microsoft Word application. The  **Application** object includes properties and methods that return top-level objects. For example, the ** [ActiveDocument](c20a7c9f-f8a4-7913-f53f-10baa6807def.md)**property returns a  ** [Document](8d83487a-2345-a036-a916-971c9db5b7fb.md)**object.

## Remarks

Use the  **Application** property to return the **Application** object. The following example displays the user name for Word.


```
MsgBox Application.UserName
```

Many of the properties and methods that return the most common user-interface objects—such as the active document ( **ActiveDocument** property)—can be used without the **Application** object qualifier. For example, instead of writing `Application.ActiveDocument.PrintOut`, you can write  `ActiveDocument.PrintOut`. Properties and methods that can be used without the  **Application** object qualifier are considered "global." To view the global properties and methods in the **Object Browser**, click  **&lt;globals&gt;** at the top of the list in the **Classes** box. (Also see the ** [Global](b91e7459-08d5-ea8c-42e0-f7b9bfd1a72c.md)** object.)

Remarks

To use Automation (formerly OLE Automation) to control Word from another application, use the Microsoft Visual Basic  **CreateObject** or **GetObject** function to return a Word **Application** object. The following Microsoft Excel example starts Word (if it is not already running) and opens an existing document.




```
Set wrd = GetObject(, "Word.Application") 
wrd.Visible = True 
wrd.Documents.Open "C:\My Documents\Temp.doc" 
Set wrd = Nothing
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](71669f1e-65f1-b0f1-b67d-355dfdbebe50.md)
