
# Window Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a window. Many document characteristics, such as scroll bars and rulers, are actually properties of the window.

## Remarks

The  **Window** object is a member of the ** [Windows](377b493b-e73c-0132-869c-3876c3beaef7.md)**collection. The  **Windows** collection for the **Application** object contains all the windows in the application, whereas the **Windows** collection for the **Document** object contains only the windows that display the specified document.

Use  **Windows**(Index), where Index is the window name or the index number, to return a single  **Window** object. The following example maximizes the Document1 window.




```
Windows("Document1").WindowState = wdWindowStateMaximize
```

The index number is the number to the left of the window name on the  **Window** menu. The following example displays the caption of the first window in the **Windows** collection.




```
MsgBox Windows(1).Caption
```

Use the  **Add**method or the  **NewWindow**method to add a new window to the  **Windows** collection. Each of the following statements creates a new window for the document in the active window.




```
ActiveDocument.ActiveWindow.NewWindow 
NewWindow 
Windows.Add
```

A colon (:) and a number appear in the window caption when more than one window is open for a document.

When you switch the view to print preview, a new window is created. This window is removed from the  **Windows** collection when you close print preview.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [Window Object Members](c0dec747-3695-4f96-ea25-05b6494aad7e.md)
