
# AutoCaptions Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [AutoCaption](895b5181-d36f-7f63-572a-c2d37c878e17.md)**objects that represent the captions that can be automatically added when items such as tables, pictures, or OLE objects are inserted into a document.

## Remarks

Use the  ** [AutoCaptions](6dd68657-3880-76eb-0dc4-91eb58fb0815.md)** property to return the **AutoCaptions** collection. The following example displays the names of the selected items in the **AutoCaption** dialog box.


```
For Each autoCap In AutoCaptions 
 If autoCap.AutoInsert = True Then 
 MsgBox autoCap.Name &amp; " is configured for auto insert" 
 End If 
Next autoCap
```

The  **AutoCaptions** collection contains all the captions listed in the **AutoCaption** dialog box. ** [AutoCaption](895b5181-d36f-7f63-572a-c2d37c878e17.md)** objects cannot be programmatically added to or deleted from the **AutoCaptions** collection.

Use  **AutoCaptions**(index), where index is the caption name or index number, to return a single  ** [AutoCaption](895b5181-d36f-7f63-572a-c2d37c878e17.md)** object. The caption names correspond to the items listed in the **AutoCaption** dialog box. You must exactly match the spelling (but not necessarily the capitalization) of the name, as it is shown in the **AutoCaption** dialog box. The following example displays the caption text "Microsoft Word Table."




```
MsgBox AutoCaptions("Microsoft Word Table").CaptionLabel.Name
```

The index number represents the position of the  ** [AutoCaption](895b5181-d36f-7f63-572a-c2d37c878e17.md)** object in the list of captions in the **AutoCaption** dialog box. The following example displays the name of the first item selected in the **AutoCaption** dialog box.




```
MsgBox AutoCaptions(1).Name
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [AutoCaptions Object Members](cff144e8-cb63-f4aa-06d6-307fcb3f5113.md)
