
# HangulAndAlphabetExceptions Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **HangulAndAlphabetException**objects that represents all Hangul and alphabet AutoCorrect exceptions.

## Remarks

Use the  **HangulAndAlphabetExceptions**property to return the  **HangulAndAlphabetExceptions** collection. The following example displays the items in this collection.


```
For Each aHan In AutoCorrect.HangulAndAlphabetExceptions 
 MsgBox aHan.Name 
Next aHan
```

If the value of the  **HangulAndAlphabetAutoAdd**property is  **True**, words are automatically added to the list of Hangul and alphabet AutoCorrect exceptions. Use the  **Add**method to add an item to the  **HangulAndAlphabetExceptions** collection. The following example adds "hello" to the list of alphabet AutoCorrect exceptions.




```
AutoCorrect.HangulAndAlphabetExceptions.Add Name:="hello"
```

Use  **HangulAndAlphabetExceptions**(Index), where Index is the Hangul or alphabet AutoCorrect exception name or the index number, to return a single  ** [HangulAndAlphabetException](f383505b-1f98-117c-e170-606403ad1508.md)** object. The following example deletes the alphabet AutoCorrect exception named "goodbye."




```
AutoCorrect.HangulAndAlphabetExceptions("goodbye").Delete
```

The index number represents the position of the hangul or alphabet AutoCorrect exception in the  **HangulAndAlphabetExceptions** collection. The following example displays the name of the first item in the **HangulAndAlphabetExceptions** collection.




```
MsgBox AutoCorrect.HangulAndAlphabetExceptions(1).Name
```


 **Note**  The list of Hangul and alphabet AutoCorrect exceptions corresponds to the list of AutoCorrect exceptions on the  **Korean** tab in the **AutoCorrect Exceptions** dialog box.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [HangulAndAlphabetExceptions Object Members](9b084f40-dc31-1809-ea89-45d16f6a2356.md)
