
# Modifying a Portion of a Document

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Word 2013_

Visual Basic includes objects that you can use to modify the following document elements: characters, words, sentences, paragraphs, and sections. The following table includes the properties that correspond to these document elements and the objects they return.



|**This expression**|**Returns this object**|
|:-----|:-----|
| **Words** ( _index_)| ** [Range](15a7a1c4-5f3f-5b6e-60e9-29688de3f274.md)**|
| **Characters** ( _index_)| ** [Range](15a7a1c4-5f3f-5b6e-60e9-29688de3f274.md)**|
| **Sentences** ( _index_)| ** [Range](15a7a1c4-5f3f-5b6e-60e9-29688de3f274.md)**|
| **Paragraphs** ( _index_)| ** [Paragraph](0a704079-a082-4ab1-841b-fc0d49dd26d4.md)**|
| **Sections** ( _index_)| ** [Section](3fe563d8-fc05-c17a-e67b-c50eea7e7f13.md)**|
When these properties are used without an index, a collection object with the same name is returned. For example, the  **Paragraphs** property returns the ** [Paragraphs](bdc7a183-2a98-7d47-c86a-5cecd6c91449.md)** collection object. However, if you identify an item within these collections by index, the object in the second column of the table is returned. For example, `Words(1)` returns a **Range** object. After you have a **Range** object, you can use any of the range properties or methods to modify the **Range** object. For example, the following instruction copies the first word in the selection to the Clipboard.



```
Sub CopyWord() 
    Selection.Words(1).Copy 
End Sub
```


 **Note**  The items in the  ** [Paragraphs](bdc7a183-2a98-7d47-c86a-5cecd6c91449.md)** and ** [Sections](cf6f77ba-9eee-5614-e697-bc031c4c6dcd.md)** collections are singular forms of the collection, specifically **Paragraph** objects and **Section** objects, rather than **Range** objects. In fact, most collections in the Word object model have singular form objects with which you can work. However, the **Range** property (which returns a **Range** object) is available from both the **Paragraph** object and the **Section** object, and from most other objects that are children of collections. For example, the following instruction copies the first paragraph in the active document to the Clipboard.




```
Sub CopyParagraph() 
    ActiveDocument.Paragraphs(1).Range.Copy 
End Sub
```

All of the document element properties in the preceding table are available from the  **Document**,  **Selection**, and  **Range** objects. The following examples demonstrate how you can drill down to these properties from ** [Document](8d83487a-2345-a036-a916-971c9db5b7fb.md)**,  ** [Selection](7b574a91-c33e-ecfd-6783-6b7528b2ed8f.md)**, and  **Range** objects.
The following example sets the case of the first word in the active document.



```
Sub ChangeCase() 
    ActiveDocument.Words(1).Case = wdUpperCase 
End Sub
```

The following example sets the bottom margin of the current section to 0.5 inch.



```
Sub ChangeSectionMargin() 
    Selection.Sections(1).PageSetup.BottomMargin = InchesToPoints(0.5) 
End Sub
```

The following example double spaces the text in the active document (the  ** [Content](80578329-a648-1d4b-f83d-4b2d289813fb.md)** property returns a **Range** object).



```
Sub DoubleSpaceDocument() 
    ActiveDocument.Content.ParagraphFormat.Space2 
End Sub
```


## Modifying a group of document elements

To modify a range of text that consists of a group of document elements (characters, words, sentences, paragraphs, or sections), you need to create a  **Range** object. The **Range** method creates a **Range** object given a start and endpoint. For example, the following instruction creates a **Range** object that refers to the first ten characters in the active document.


```
Sub SetRangeForFirstTenCharacters() 
    Dim rngTenCharacters As Range 
    Set rngTenCharacters = ActiveDocument.Range(Start:=0, End:=10) 
End Sub
```

Using the  ** [Start](aadedbb7-1ee2-9e5a-296d-0ebe25b6d8f4.md)** and ** [End](fe90f321-c7b5-bea2-fa60-e6b750b33cf7.md)** properties with a **Range** object, you can create a new **Range** object that refers to a group of document elements. For example, the following instruction creates a **Range** object ( `rngThreeWords`) that refers to the first three words in the active document.




```
Sub SetRangeForFirstThreeWords() 
    Dim docActive As Document 
    Dim rngThreeWords As Range 
    Set docActive = ActiveDocument 
    Set rngThreeWords = docActive.Range(Start:=docActive.Words(1).Start, _ 
        End:=docActive.Words(3).End) 
End Sub
```

The following example creates a  **Range** object ( `rngParagraphs`) beginning at the start of the second paragraph and ending after the third paragraph.




```
Sub SetParagraphRange() 
    Dim docActive As Document 
    Dim rngParagraphs As Range 
    Set docActive = ActiveDocument 
    Set rngParagraphs = docActive.Range(Start:=docActive.Paragraphs(2).Range.Start, _ 
        End:=docActive.Paragraphs(3).Range.End) 
End Sub
```

For more information about defining  **Range** objects, see [Working with Range objects](9e240aa7-8608-9d70-aee3-2e202687459e.md).

