
# Change the Editability of a Content Control

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 _**Applies to:** Word 2013_

Sometimes you might want to limit how a user works with a content control. Word gives you several ways to do this. For example, you can limit the text that a user can insert into a content control, force a user to insert content into a content control, or lock a content control. There are two ways that you can lock a content control. One prohibits a user from deleting the content control. Another prohibits a user from editing the content control.

You can set these restrictions programmatically. For example, you might want to prohibit a user from editing a content control based on the value that a user inserts into another control. Use the  ** [LockContentControl](a567f2a5-a3db-446c-e694-50dbfbb3e9db.md)** property to prohibit a user from deleting a content control, and use the ** [LockContents](8d4a68dc-01c8-0f0f-5adf-7b53b4fe3ffc.md)** property to prohibit a user from editing the contents of a content control.
The objects used in this sample are:

-  [ContentControl](783dec26-9b63-11f8-6187-985f9c815f27.md)
    
-  [ContentControls](2595eea9-df68-edce-3a51-069cad14bb87.md)
    
The following example uses the  **LockContentControl** property and the **LockContents** property to prohibit a user from deleting or editing the content control.



```
Sub LockcontentControl() 
 Dim objCC As ContentControl 
 
 Set objCC = ActiveDocument.ContentControls _ 
 .Add(wdContentControlRichText) 
 
 objCC.LockcontentControl = True 
 objCC.LockContents = True 
End Sub
```

Using these properties with one of the events for content controls, such as the  **ContentControlOnExit** event, gives you control over how content controls are used in documents and how users work with them.
