
# HangulAndAlphabetException Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents a single Hangul or alphabet AutoCorrect exception. The  **HangulAndAlphabetException** object is a member of the **HangulAndAlphabetExceptions**collection.

## Remarks

Use  **HangulAndAlphabetExceptions**(Index), where Index is the Hangul or alphabet AutoCorrect exception name or the index number, to return a single  **HangulAndAlphabetException** object. The following example deletes the alphabet AutoCorrect exception named "hello."


```
AutoCorrect.HangulAndAlphabetExceptions("hello").Delete
```

The index number represents the position of the Hangul or alphabet AutoCorrect exception in the  ** [HangulAndAlphabetExceptions](ddb128f0-3752-5d38-e65a-767f17d86294.md)** collection. The following example displays the name of the first item in the ** [HangulAndAlphabetExceptions](ddb128f0-3752-5d38-e65a-767f17d86294.md)** collection.




```
MsgBox AutoCorrect.HangulAndAlphabetExceptions(1).Name
```

If the value of the  **HangulAndAlphabetAutoAdd**property is  **True**, words are automatically added to the list of Hangul and alphabet AutoCorrect exceptions. Use the  **Add**method to add an item to the  ** [HangulAndAlphabetExceptions](ddb128f0-3752-5d38-e65a-767f17d86294.md)** collection. The following example adds "goodbye" to the list of alphabet AutoCorrect exceptions.




```
AutoCorrect.HangulAndAlphabetExceptions.Add Name:="goodbye"
```


 **Note**  The  ** [HangulAndAlphabetExceptions](ddb128f0-3752-5d38-e65a-767f17d86294.md)** collection includes all Hangul and alphabet AutoCorrect exceptions and corresponds to the items listed on the **Korean** tab in the **AutoCorrect Exceptions** dialog box.


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [HangulAndAlphabetException Object Members](7f6fa37a-c66a-32c5-c2d3-1141980ad488.md)
