
# OtherCorrectionsExceptions Object (Word)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  **OtherCorrectionsException**objects that represents the list of words that Microsoft Word won't correct automatically.

## Remarks

This list corresponds to the list of AutoCorrect exceptions on the  **Other Corrections** tab in the **AutoCorrect Exceptions** dialog box.

Use the  **OtherCorrectionsExceptions**property to return the  **OtherCorrectionsExceptions** collection. The following example displays the items in this collection.




```
For Each aCap In AutoCorrect.OtherCorrectionsExceptions 
 MsgBox aCap.Name 
Next aCap
```

If the value of the  **OtherCorrectionsAutoAdd**property is  **True**, words are automatically added to the list of AutoCorrect exceptions. Use the  **Add**method to add an item to the  **OtherCorrectionsExceptions** collection. The following example adds "TipTop" to the list of AutoCorrect exceptions.




```
AutoCorrect.OtherCorrectionsExceptions.Add Name:="TipTop"
```

Use  **OtherCorrectionsExceptions**(Index), where Index is the name or the index number, to return a single  **OtherCorrectionsException** object. The following example deletes "WTop" from the list of AutoCorrect exceptions.




```
AutoCorrect.OtherCorrectionsExceptions("WTop").Delete
```

The index number represents the position of the AutoCorrect exception in the  **OtherCorrectionsExceptions** collection. The following example displays the name of the first item in the **OtherCorrectionsExceptions** collection.




```
MsgBox AutoCorrect.OtherCorrectionsExceptions(1).Name
```


## See also


#### Concepts


 [Word Object Model Reference](be452561-b436-bb9b-6f94-3faa9a74a6fd.md)
#### Other resources


 [OtherCorrectionsExceptions Object Members](5569aae0-899f-268e-53dd-77545065934b.md)
