
# Office VBA language reference

Welcome to the Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) language reference for Office. This reference contains conceptual overviews, programming tasks, samples, and references to guide you in developing solutions based on VBA.

 >**Note**  Interested in developing solutions that extend the Office experience across [multiple platforms](https://dev.office.com/add-in-availability)? Check out the new [Office Add-ins model](http://dev.office.com/docs/add-ins/overview/office-add-ins).

The documentation provided in this reference includes the following:

-  **Microsoft Forms reference**
    
    Provides information about  **Userforms** and controls, and how to program with them by using Visual Basic.
    
-  **Visual Basic conceptual topics**
    
    Provides information to help you understand Visual Basic programming. 
    
-  **Visual Basic definitions**
    
    Provides a glossary of definitions to help you understand concepts presented in this documentation.
    
-  **Visual Basic how-to topics**
    
    Describes useful common procedures (for example, how to use the  **Object Browser** or how to set Visual Basic Environment options).
    
-  **Visual Basic language reference**
    
    Provides documentation about Visual Basic the language: all its methods, properties, statements, functions, operators, and objects.
    
-  **Visual Basic add-in model**
    
    Describes how to customize the Visual Basic editor, and provides documentation for the object model that enables you to extend the environment.
    
-  **Visual Basic user interface Help**
    
    Describes user interface elements of the Visual Basic Editor, such as commands, dialog boxes, windows, and toolbars.
    

