
# Type mismatch (Error 13)

Visual Basic is able to convert and coerce many values to accomplish [data type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) assignments that weren't possible in earlier versions. However, this error can still occur and has the following causes and solutions:


-  **Cause:** The[variable](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) or[property](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) isn't of the correct type. For example, a variable that requires an integer value can't accept a string value unless the whole string can be recognized as an integer.
    
     **Solution:** Try to make assignments only between compatible[data types](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md). For example, an  **Integer** can always be assigned to a **Long**, a **Single** can always be assigned to a **Double**, and any type (except a[user-defined type](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md)) can be assigned to a  **Variant**.
    
-  **Cause:** An object was passed to a[procedure](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) that is expecting a single property or value.
    
     **Solution:** Pass the appropriate single property or call a[method](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) appropriate to the object.
    
-  **Cause:** A[module](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) or[project](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) name was used where an[expression](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) was expected, for example:
    
```vb
Debug.Print MyModule 
```


     **Solution:** Specify an expression that can be displayed.
    
-  **Cause:** You attempted to mix traditional Basic error handling with **Variant** values having the **Error** subtype (10, **vbError** ), for example:
    
```vb
Error CVErr(n) 
```


     **Solution:** To regenerate an error, you must map it to an intrinsic Visual Basic or a user-defined error, and then generate that error.
    
-  **Cause:** A **CVErr** value can't be converted to **Date**. For example:
    
```vb
MyVar = CDate(CVErr(9)) 
```


     **Solution:** Use a **Select Case** statement or some similar construct to map the return of **CVErr** to such a value.
    
-  **Cause:** At[run time](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md), this error typically indicates that a  **Variant** used in an expression has an incorrect subtype, or a **Variant** containing an[array](b8bdf64f-5920-1ae9-16d0-b26d09524a30.md) appears in a **Print #** statement.
    
     **Solution:** To print arrays, create a loop that displays each element individually.
    



For additional information, select the item in question and press F1 (in Windows) or HELP (on the Macintosh).
