
# MailMergeDataField.UnMapRecipientField Method (Publisher)

Undoes the mapping between the parent  **MailMergeDataField** object in a particular data source and the recipient field in the master data source (combined mail-merge recipient list) to which it is currently mapped.


## Syntax

 _expression_. **UnMapRecipientField**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **MailMergeDataField** object.


## Remarks

This method works only if the parent  **MailMergeDataField** object is mapped to a recipient field. You can use the **[IsMapped](4a053a2b-f6ca-37a7-4a1f-8690982188c2.md)** property of the **MailMergeDataField** object to determine if the object is mapped.


## Example

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to use the  **UnmapRecipientField** method to undo the mapping between a data field (column) in a particular data source and a field in the the master data source (combined recipient list) for the publication.

Before running this macro, replace  _datasourceindex_ with the index number of a valid data source in the data source collection of the active document, and replace _fieldname_ with the name of the field in the data source that you want to remove from the combined list of recipient fields.

See the  **[Item](a65fedf6-aae5-64ef-e7d0-6bbc3d5b733c.md)** method topic for an example of how you can use the **Name** property of the **DataSource** object to determine the index number of the data source you want.




```vb
Public Sub UnmapRecipientField_Example() 
 
 Dim pubMailMergeDataSources As Publisher.MailMergeDataSources 
 Dim pubMailMergeDataField As Publisher.MailMergeDataField 
 
 Set pubMailMergeDataSources = ThisDocument.MailMerge.DataSource.DataSources 
 Set pubMailMergeDataField = pubMailMergeDataSources.Item(datasourceindex).DataFields.Item("fieldname") 
 
 If pubMailMergeDataField.IsMapped Then 
 
 pubMailMergeDataField.UnMapRecipientField 
 Debug.Print "Field unmapped succesfully." 
 
 Else 
 
 Debug.Print "This field is not mapped." 
 
 End If 
 
End Sub
```

