
# AdvancedPrintOptions.PrintRegistrationMarks Property (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **True** to print registration marks for the specified publication. The default is **True**. Read/write  **Boolean**.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **PrintRegistrationMarks**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **AdvancedPrintOptions** object.


### Return Value

Boolean


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Returns "Permission Denied" if any print mode other than separations is selected for the specified publication.

This property corresponds to the  **Registration marks** control on the **Page Settings** tab of the **Advanced Print Settings** dialog box.

Registration marks are used to align (register) the printing of two or more press plates on a single page.

These printer's marks print outside the publication and can only be printed if the size of the paper being printed to is larger than the publication page size.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets crop marks and job information to print with the publication. If the publication is printed as separations, the additional types of printer's marks are also set to print. This example assumes that the size of the paper being printed to is larger than the publication page size.


```
Sub SetPrintersMarksToPrint() 
With ActiveDocument.AdvancedPrintOptions 
.PrintCropMarks = True 
.PrintJobInformation = True 
If PrintMode = pbPrintModeSeparations Then 
.PrintRegistrationMarks = True 
.PrintDensityBars = True 
.PrintColorBars = True 
End If 
End With 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [AdvancedPrintOptions Object](61f776cc-dc3e-61b6-057a-125ad15146c8.md)
#### Other resources


 [AdvancedPrintOptions Object Members](8b227886-9c49-ef46-adc5-40d6ea8bc1d8.md)
