
# ShapeRange.Ungroup Method (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Ungroups the specified group of shapes or any groups of shapes in the specified shape range. If the specified shape is a picture or OLE object, Microsoft Publisher will break it apart and convert it to an ungrouped set of shapes. (For example, an embedded Microsoft Excel spreadsheet is converted into lines and text boxes.) Returns the ungrouped shapes as a single  ** [ShapeRange](c85967c9-af43-747d-7e0b-64ddc22c84be.md)**object.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **Ungroup**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **ShapeRange** object.


### Return Value

ShapeRange


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Using this method on an inline shape or a shape that isn't a group, picture, or OLE object generates an error. Also, an error occurs if the picture is a bitmap, JPEG, GIF, or PNG (Portable Network Graphics) file.

Because a group of shapes is treated as a single object, grouping and ungrouping shapes changes the number of items in the  **Shapes** collection and changes the index numbers of items that come after the affected items in the collection. Also, newly ungrouped shapes are added to the **Shapes** collection on the current page (or pages) or scratch area. As a result, they may shift from one collection to another.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example ungroups any grouped shapes on the first page of the active publication.


```
Dim shpLoop As Shape 
 
For Each shpLoop In ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Shapes 
 If shpLoop.Type = pbGroup Then shpLoop.Ungroup 
Next shpLoop 

```

