
# Using Events with the Application Object (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Declare the Object Variable](#sectionSection0)
 [Write the Event Procedures](#sectionSection1)
 [Initialize the Declared Object](#sectionSection2)


To create an event handler for an event of the  **Application** object, you need to complete the following three steps:


1.  [Declare an object variable in a class module to respond to the events.](#declare)
    
2.  [Write the specific event procedures.](#write)
    
3.  [Initialize the declared object from another module.](#initialize)
    

## Declare the Object Variable
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

Before you can write procedures for the events of the  **Application** object, you must create a new class module and declare an object of type **Application** with events. For example, assume that a new class module is created and called EventClassModule. The new class module contains the following code.


```
Public WithEvents App As Publisher.Application
```


## Write the Event Procedures
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

After the new object has been declared with events, it appears in the  **Object** drop-down list box in the class module, and you can write event procedures for the new object. (When you select the new object in the **Object** box, the valid events for that object are listed in the **Procedure** drop-down list box.) Select an event from the **Procedure** drop-down list box; an empty procedure is added to the class module.


```
Private Sub App_DocumentOpen() 
 
End Sub
```


## Initialize the Declared Object
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

Before the procedure will run, you must connect the declared object in the class module (App in this example) with the  **Application** object. You can do this with the following code from any module.


```
Dim X As New EventClassModule 
Sub Register_Event_Handler() 
 Set X.App = Publisher.Application 
End Sub
```

Run the Register_Event_Handler procedure. After the running procedure, the App object in the class module points to the Microsoft Publisher  **Application** object, and the event procedures in the class module will run when the events occur.


 **Note**  For information on creating event procedures for the  **Document** object, see [Using Events with the Document Object](0f5cfe67-bfa1-0ec7-11c9-c4c1337ebe50.md).

