
# WebPageOptions.BackgroundSoundLoopCount Property (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns a  **Long** value that specifies the number of times the background sound attached to a Web page is played when the page is loaded in a Web browser. Read-only.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **BackgroundSoundLoopCount**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **WebPageOptions** object.


### Return Value

Long


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  ** [SetBackgroundSoundRepeat](a699fa92-a36a-6722-431d-a0ce8413cfcf.md)** method can be used to specify the number of times the background sound file is played when the page is loaded. If using the **SetBackgroundSoundRepeat** method to specify the number of times the background file is played, the **BackgroundSoundLoopCount** property will be equal to that specified value. Note that valid values range from 1 to 999, inclusive. Attempting to set this value outside this range will result in a run-time error.

Until the  **SetBackgroundSoundRepeat** method is used to change the number of times the background sound file is played, **BackgroundSoundLoopCount** is 1.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the background sound for page four of the active Web publication to a .wav file on the local computer. If  **BackgroundSoundLoopCount** is less than three, the **SetBackgroundSoundRepeat** method is used to specify that the background sound be repeated three times. The **BackgroundSoundLoopCount** property will now be three.


```
Dim theWPO As WebPageOptions 
 
Set theWPO = ActiveDocument.Pages(4).WebPageOptions 
 
With theWPO 
 .BackgroundSound = "C:\CompanySounds\corporate_jingle.wav" 
 If .BackgroundSoundLoopCount < 3 Then 
 .SetBackgroundSoundRepeat RepeatForever:=False, RepeatTimes:=3 
 End If 
End With
```

