
# WebOptions.EnableIncrementalUpload Property (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets a  **Boolean** value that specifies whether changes made to a Web publication can be uploaded to a Web server independent of the entire publication. If **True**, only changes made to a publication will be uploaded to the Web server when published. If  **False**, the entire publication will be uploaded to the Web server. The default value is  **True**. Read/write.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **EnableIncrementalUpload**

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **WebOptions** object.


### Return Value

Boolean


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

The  **EnableIncrementalUpload** property applies only to Web publications that have already been published to a Web server. If a Web publication has not already been published to a Web server, the entire publication will be published to the server during the initial publishing process, regardless of whether the **EnableIncrementalUpload** property is set to **True**. If a Web publication has already been published to a Web server and the  **EnableIncrementalUpload** property is then set to **True**, only changes made to the Web publication, and not the entire publication, after this point will be published to the server.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example tests whether the Web publication is set to upload only changes made to the publication. If not, the  **EnableIncrementalUpload** property is set to **True** to specify that only changes to the publication be uploaded to the Web server.


```
Dim theWO As WebOptions 
 
Set theWO = Application.WebOptions 
 
With theWO 
 If .EnableIncrementalUpload = False Then 
 .EnableIncrementalUpload = True 
 End If 
End With
```

