
# BorderArt Object (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents an available type of BorderArt. BorderArt is picture borders that can be applied to text boxes, picture frames, or rectangles. The  **BorderArt** object is a member of the ** [BorderArts](0fc016f6-154e-3591-34b3-e094bbad9d16.md)** collection. The **BorderArts** collection contains all BorderArt available for use in the specified publication.

## Remarks

The  **BorderArts** collection includes any custom BorderArt types created by the user for the specified publication.


## Example

Use the  ** [Item](64c79cf8-dfbf-9979-27d9-367603f5bf9a.md)** property of a **BorderArts** collection to return a specific BorderArt object. The Index argument of the **Item** property can be the number or name of the BorderArt object.

This example returns the BorderArt "Apples" from the active publication. 




```
Dim bdaTemp As BorderArt 
 
Set bdaTemp = ActiveDocument.BorderArts.Item (Index:="Apples") 
```

Use the  ** [Name](71e68f08-6bf1-7f4d-5da2-9f4ce4f63021.md)** property to specify which type of BorderArt you want applied to a picture. The following example sets all the BorderArt in a document to the same type using the **Name** property.




```
Sub SetBorderArtByName() 
 
Dim anyPage As Page 
Dim anyShape As Shape 
Dim strBorderArtName As String 
 
strBorderArtName = Document.BorderArts(1).Name 
 
For Each anyPage in ActiveDocument.Pages 
For Each anyShape in anyPage.Shapes 
With anyShape.BorderArt 
If .Exists = True Then 
.Name = strBorderArtName 
End If 
End With 
Next anyShape 
Next anyPage 
End Sub
```




 **Note**  Because  **Name** is the default property of both the **BorderArt** object and the **BorderArtFormat** object, you do not need to state it explicitly when setting the BorderArt type. The statement `Shape.BorderArtFormat = Document.BorderArts(1)`is equivalent to `Shape.BorderArtFormat.Name = Document.BorderArts(1).Name`


## See also


#### Other resources


 [BorderArt Object Members](51e5b24f-85be-9975-1c2e-d66204eb71bb.md)
