
# TextEffectFormat.RotatedChars Property (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


 **msoTrue** if characters in the specified WordArt are rotated 90 degrees relative to the WordArt's bounding shape. **msoFalse** if characters in the specified WordArt retain their original orientation relative to the bounding shape. Read/write.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **RotatedChars**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **TextEffectFormat** object.


### Return Value

MsoTriState


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If the WordArt has horizontal text, setting the  **RotatedChars** property to **True** rotates the characters 90 degrees counterclockwise. If the WordArt has vertical text, setting the **RotatedChars** property to **False** rotates the characters 90 degrees clockwise. Use the ** [ToggleVerticalText](627ddbcc-5951-70c6-4e54-de0e9a4bebec.md)**method to switch between horizontal and vertical text flow.

The  ** [Flip](6d0004a5-2d76-955a-64ff-140dfbc313f3.md)**method and  ** [Rotation](3cb55e8c-83fa-2f20-caac-a1e897e9a369.md)**property of the  ** [Shape](666cb7f0-62a8-f419-9838-007ef29506ee.md)**object and the  **RotatedChars** property and **ToggleVerticalText** method of the ** [TextEffectFormat](672d0ef0-cbcd-05ef-9aa5-b986c7b045ac.md)** object all affect the character orientation and direction of text flow in a **Shape** object that represents WordArt. You may have to experiment to find out how to combine the effects of these properties and methods to get the result you want.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example adds WordArt that contains the text "Test" to the active publication and rotates the characters 90 degrees counterclockwise.


```
Sub CreateFormatWordArt() 
 With ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Shapes _ 
 .AddTextEffect(PresetTextEffect:=msoTextEffect1, _ 
 Text:="Test", FontName:="Arial Black", FontSize:=36, _ 
 FontBold:=False, FontItalic:=False, Left:=10, Top:=10) 
 .TextEffect.RotatedChars = msoTrue 
 End With 
End Sub
```

