
# Shapes.AddCatalogMergeArea Method (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Adds a  **Shape** object that represents the specified publication's catalog merge area.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **AddCatalogMergeArea**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **Shapes** object.


### Return Value

Shape


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Only one catalog merge area can be added to a publication page. Typically, a publication will only have one catalog merge area.

Although you can add one catalog merge area per publication page, you can only connect to a single data source for a publication. What data is merged is determined by the catalog merge area on the active page, and the data fields it contains.


 **Note**  You must add a catalog merge area to the publication page before you connect to a data source.

Use the  ** [AddToCatalogMergeArea](4178d286-045f-a7b6-86b6-710bed10e824.md)** method of the ** [Shape](666cb7f0-62a8-f419-9838-007ef29506ee.md)** or ** [ShapeRange](c85967c9-af43-747d-7e0b-64ddc22c84be.md)** objects to add shapes to a catalog merge area.

Use the  ** [Insert](54482cda-d0d3-c799-7e7f-b25835a8bd6f.md)** method of the ** [MailMergeDataFields](44ae8a3c-b8a8-fc57-9d02-d71dcffc21ef.md)** collection to add a picture data field to a publication's catalog merge area.

Use the  ** [InsertMailMergeField](97bce07d-b831-3ad6-2436-f85590c3bcd8.md)** method of the ** [TextRange](566f240b-d2a6-8cb3-9eb7-68328d6c28bd.md)** object to add a text data field to a text box in the publication's catalog merge area.

Use the  ** [RemoveCatalogMergeArea](addff960-562e-b8e8-ec56-ddcf2b9ccaa7.md)** method of the ** [Shape](666cb7f0-62a8-f419-9838-007ef29506ee.md)** object to remove a catalog merge area from a publication.

This method corresponds to selecting a catalog merge in  **Step 1: Select a merge type** of the **Mail and Catalog Merge Wizard**.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example adds a catalog merge area to the first page of the specified publication.


```
ThisDocument.Pages(1).Shapes.AddCatalogMergeArea
```

