
# Shapes Object (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

A collection of  ** [Shape](666cb7f0-62a8-f419-9838-007ef29506ee.md)** objects that represent all the shapes on a page of a publication. Each **Shape** object represents an object in the drawing layer, such as an AutoShape, freeform, OLE object, or picture.

 **Note**  If you want to work with a subset of the shapes on a document — for example, to do something to only the AutoShapes on the document or to only the selected shapes — you must construct a  ** [ShapeRange](c85967c9-af43-747d-7e0b-64ddc22c84be.md)** collection that contains the shapes with which you want to work.


## Example

Use the  ** [Shapes](4e48d4cf-d7b6-9099-ddee-46a79e7eb7bf.md)** property to return the **Shapes** collection. The following example selects all the shapes on the first page of the active publication.


```
Sub SelectAllShapes() 
    ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Shapes.SelectAll 
End Sub
```


 **Note**  If you want to do something (like delete or set a property) to all the shapes in a publication at the same time, use the  ** [Range](f9ef5314-21f1-378f-1552-fcd4e46f841d.md)** method to create a **ShapeRange** object that contains all the shapes in the **Shapes** collection, and then apply the appropriate property or method to the **ShapeRange** object.



Use one of the following methods of the  **Shapes** collection: ** [AddCallout](bbf5f913-fcf0-b700-0c7e-9f0bdc7c6aea.md)** , ** [AddConnector](fd1ef969-7960-2555-e355-9804c86f6c01.md)** , ** [AddCurve](888a35cb-190d-4058-e0d7-a848d77ba920.md)** , ** [AddLabel](5a803aa2-d37f-6da1-7d8b-58ee2dcd8146.md)** , ** [AddLine](43df8878-5640-875f-06e0-37e1feb47b78.md)** , ** [AddOLEObject](c454f9cb-2005-5e55-80a7-6dfbe9c109e5.md)** , ** [AddPolyline](d49fb2bc-4df5-fff8-c741-2c0d35413fc5.md)** , ** [AddShape](500d8cb3-f066-fdb6-09ac-b03c7822e8bd.md)** , ** [AddTextbox](38494902-61d5-2017-819e-248b2b7bc0d1.md)** , or ** [AddTextEffect](21af82f1-d507-3c16-72df-bde1b5e00717.md)** to add a shape to a publication and return a **Shape** object that represents the newly created shape. The following example adds a new shape to the active publication.




```
Sub AddNewShape() 
    ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Shapes.AddShape Type:=msoShapeFoldedCorner, _ 
        Left:=50, Top:=50, Width:=100, Height:=200 
End Sub
```

Use  **Shapes**(index), where index is the index number, to return a single  **Shape** object. The following example horizontally flips shape one on the first page of the active publication.




```
Sub FlipShape() 
    ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Shapes(1).Flip FlipCmd:=msoFlipHorizontal 
End Sub
```

