
# Application.MailMergeAfterRecordMerge Event (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Occurs after each record in the data source successfully merges in a mail merge.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MailMergeAfterRecordMerge**( **_Doc_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Doc|Required| **Document**|The mail merge main document.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

If you maintain a customer management database, you can use the  **MailMergeAfterRecordMerge** event to update the database for each merged record.

To access the  **Application** object events, declare an **Application** object variable in the General Declarations section of a code module. Then set the variable equal to the **Application** object for which you want to access events. For information about using events with the Microsoft Publisher **Application** object, see [Using Events with the Application Object](29b60d3c-3049-2ba9-8688-e46c4323e9ba.md).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

This example displays a message with the value of the first and second fields in the record that has just finished merging.


```
Private Sub MailMergeApp_MailMergeAfterRecordMerge(ByVal Doc As Document) 
 
 With ActiveDocument.MailMerge.DataSource 
 MsgBox .DataFields.Item(3).Value &amp; " " &amp; _ 
 .DataFields.Item(2).Value &amp; " is finished merging." 
 End With 
 
End Sub
```

For this event to occur, you must place the following line of code in the General Declarations section of your module and run the following initialization routine.




```
Private WithEvents MailMergeApp As Application 
 
Sub InitializeMailMergeApp() 
 Set MailMergeApp = Publisher.Application 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](acfc7efb-e6a5-a89a-3aee-3cb4af2f3508.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](aa4d515b-f779-b8b5-968a-8e5f7466fb56.md)
