
# Application.MailMergeGenerateBarcode Event (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Occurs when Microsoft Publisher requires data to generate barcodes in a mail-merge publication, in particular when the mail-merge recipient list changes.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MailMergeGenerateBarcode**( **_Doc_**,  **_bstrString_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Doc|Required| **Document**|The current publication.|
|bstrString|Required| **String**|Output parameter. A string representation of the barcode.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Third-party add-ins that validate mail-merge addresses can use the  **MailMergeGenerateBarcode** event to listen for user actions requesting that barcodes be generated. In this situation, when the add-in receives notification that the **MailMergeGenerateBarcode** event fired, and if the active document is connected to a data source, the add-in can use the ** [MailMergeDataSource.ActiveRecord](0f092eb4-6e65-9235-83e2-a04b813b2390.md)** property to determine the record for which to generate the barcode. If the active document is not connected to a data source, the add-in uses the address text directly.

If the add-in can use the address text directly, it returns a string representation of the barcode for the bstrString output parameter. If the add-in cannot use the address text directly, it returns an empty string.

To permit triggering of the  **MailMergeGenerateBarcode** event, you must handle the ** [MailMergeInsertBarcode](6b901953-eaff-0189-1d33-678e935a2f7e.md)** event in your code, and the add-in must set the OkToInsert parameter passed to that event to **True**. 

For more information about using events with the  **Application** object, see [Using Events with the Application Object](29b60d3c-3049-2ba9-8688-e46c4323e9ba.md).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to handle the  **MailMergeGenerateBarcode** event. It returns the string that represents the barcode for active record. Note that the variable _indexNumberOfBarcodeColumn_ represents the index number of the column in the data source that lists barcodes. This code assumes that the current publication is connected to a data source.


```
Private Sub pubApplication_MailMergeGenerateBarcode(ByVal Doc As Document, bstrString As String) 
 bstrString = pubApplication.ActiveDocument.MailMerge.DataSource.DataFields.Item(indexNumberOfBarcodeColumn).Value 
End Sub
```

For this event to occur, you must place the following line of code in the  **General Declarations** section of your module.




```
Public WithEvents pubApplication As Application
```

Then run the following initialization procedure.




```
Public Sub Initialize_pubApplication() 
 Set pubApplication = Publisher.Application 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](acfc7efb-e6a5-a89a-3aee-3cb4af2f3508.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](aa4d515b-f779-b8b5-968a-8e5f7466fb56.md)
