
# Attachments Object (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

The collection of  ** [Attachment](d617bdf6-b0ba-be0d-0f72-f729010636c1.md)** objects that represents all the attachments to a merged e-mail message.

## Remarks

The  **Attachments** collection corresponds to the list of attachments in the **Attachments** box in the **Merge to E-mail** dialog box in the Microsoft Publisher user interface (on the **File** menu, point to **Send E-mail**, click  **Send E-mail Merge**, and then click  **Options**).

To add an  **Attachment** object to the **Attachments** collection and thereby add an attachment to the list of attachments to the merged e-mail that you want to send, use the **Attachments.Add** method.

To remove a single attachment from an e-mail merge message, use the  **Attachment.Delete** method of the specific **Attachment** object that you want to remove from the **Attachments** collection.

To remove all the attachments to the merged e-mail and thereby empty the  **Attachments** collection, use the **Attachments.ClearAll** method.

The default property of the  **Attachments** collection is the **Item** property.


## Example

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to use the  **Add** method to add an attachment to an e-mail merge message. The macro adds an **Attachment** object that represents a bitmap image to the **Attachments** collection of the active document. It also iterates through the **Attachments** collection and prints the name of each attachment in the **Immediate** window.

Before running this macro, place a file named  _image.bmp_ in the root of the C drive on your computer, or change the name and path of the file in the macro to specify the one you want to attach.

To send an e-mail merge message, you must connect to a data source, create the e-mail merge, and then send the message. For more information, see the ** [EmailMergeEnvelope](555dd80e-bac2-96dd-4256-ad1b8006da0f.md)** object topic.




```
Public Sub Attachments_Example() 
 
 Dim pubAttachments As Publisher.Attachments 
 Dim pubAttachment As Publisher.Attachment 
 Dim pubAttachment_Added As Publisher.Attachment 
 Dim pubMailMerge As Publisher.MailMerge 
 Dim pubEmailMergeEnvelope As Publisher.EmailMergeEnvelope 
 
 Set pubMailMerge = ThisDocument.MailMerge 
 Set pubEmailMergeEnvelope = pubMailMerge.EmailMergeEnvelope 
 Set pubAttachments = pubEmailMergeEnvelope.Attachemts 
 
 Set pubAttachment_Added = pubAttachments.Add("C:\image.bmp") 
 
 For Each pubAttachment In pubAttachments 
 Debug.Print pubAttachment.Name 
 Next 
 
End Sub
```


## See also


#### Other resources


 [Attachments Object Members](fbc479ab-ac16-7ee6-f585-5fe63f66b757.md)
