
# PageBackground Object (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

Represents the background of a page.

## Example

Use the  **Background** property of a **Page** object to return a **PageBackground** object. The following example creates a **PageBackground** object and sets it to the background of the first page of the active document.


```
Dim objPageBackground As PageBackground 
Set objPageBackground = ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Background 
 
```

Use  **PageBackground.Exists** to determine if a background already exists for the specified **Page** object. The following example builds upon the previous example. First a **PageBackground** object is created and set to the background of the first page of the active document. Then a test is made to check if a background exists for the page already. If not then one is created by calling the **Create** method of the **PageBackground** object.




```
Dim objPageBackground As PageBackground 
Set objPageBackground = ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Background 
If objPageBackground.Exists = False Then 
 objPageBackground.Create 
End If 
 
```

Use  **PageBackground.Fill** to return a **FillFormat** object. The following example builds upon the previous example. First a **PageBackground** object is created and set to the background of the first page of the active document. Then a test is made to check if a background exists for the page already. If not then one is created by calling the **Create** method of the **PageBackground** object. A **FillFormat** object is returned by using the **Fill** property of the **PageBackground** object. A few of the available properties of the **FillFormat** object are then set.




```
Dim objPageBackground As PageBackground 
Dim objFillFormat As FillFormat 
 
Set objPageBackground = ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Background 
If objPageBackground.Exists = False Then 
 objPageBackground.Create 
End If 
 
Set objFillFormat = objPageBackground.Fill 
With objFillFormat 
 .BackColor.RGB = RGB(Red:=0, GReen:=155, Blue:=99) 
 .ForeColor.RGB = RGB(Red:=155, GReen:=234, Blue:=0) 
 .TwoColorGradient msoGradientDiagonalDown, 4 
End With 
 
```

Use  **PageBackground.Delete** to delete a background for the specified page. The following example deletes the background of the first page in the active document. (The following example assumes the specified page has an existing background. A run-time error occurs if the page does not contain a background.)




```
ActiveDocument.Pages(1).Background.Delete
```

