
# Application.MailMergeInsertBarcode Event (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Occurs when the user issues the command to insert postal barcodes into a mail-merge publication, either in the Microsoft Publisher user interface (UI), or programmatically.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MailMergeInsertBarcode**( **_Doc_**,  **_OkToInsert_**)

 _expression_A variable that represents an  **Application** object.


### Parameters



|**Name**|**Required/Optional**|**Data Type**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Doc|Required| **Document**|The current publication.|
|OkToInsert|Required| **Boolean**|Output parameter.  **True** if it is okay to insert barcodes.|

## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

You can use the  ** [InsertBarcode](ad613ca7-f056-55b0-1a96-51167555ce6f.md)** method to insert barcodes into a mail merge publication.

Third-party add-ins that validate mail-merge addresses can use the  **MailMergeInsertBarcode** event to listen for user actions requesting that barcodes be inserted. In this situation, when the add-in receives notification that the **MailMergeInsertBarcode** event fired, it checks the validity of the addresses in the mail-merge list, and if the addreses are valid, it attempts to generate barcodes. If this attempt is successful, the add-in should return **True** for the OkToInsert parameter. If the attempt fails, the add-in should return **False**.

Actual barcode data is provided to Publisher by the  ** [MailMergeGenerateBarcode](5da4ec65-32b6-ea05-09ad-d2224eafee30.md)** event.

The  **MailMergeInsertBarcode** event is also triggered when a user clicks **Add a postal barcode** in the **Mail Merge** or **Catalog Merge** task pane, or **Add postal bar codes** in the **Publisher Tasks** task pane in the Publisher UI. Before a user can click either of these UI commands, you must first make them available by setting the ** [InsertBarcodeVisible](27b7f2aa-e7d7-5024-6c4a-75f2f275e924.md)** property to **True**. 

For more information about using events with the  **Application** object, see [Using Events with the Application Object](29b60d3c-3049-2ba9-8688-e46c4323e9ba.md).


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro shows how to handle the  **MailMergeInsertBarcode** event. It displays a message asking whether to proceed with inserting barcodes.


```
Private Sub pubApplication_MailMergeInsertBarcode(ByVal Doc As Document, OkToInsert As Boolean) 
 
 Dim intResponse As Integer 
 
 intResponse = MsgBox("Proceed to insert barcodes?", vbYesNo) 
 
 If intResponse = vbYes Then OkToInsert = True 
 
End Sub
```

For this event to occur, you must place the following line of code in the  **General Declarations** section of your module.




```
Public WithEvents pubApplication As Application
```

Then run the following initialization procedure.




```
Public Sub Initialize_pubApplication() 
 Set pubApplication = Publisher.Application 
End Sub
```


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Application Object](acfc7efb-e6a5-a89a-3aee-3cb4af2f3508.md)
#### Other resources


 [Application Object Members](aa4d515b-f779-b8b5-968a-8e5f7466fb56.md)
