
# LayoutGuides.MirrorGuides Property (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets a  **Boolean** indicating whether Microsoft Publisher creates mirror guide positions for a book fold publication. **True** if Publisher creates mirror guide positions for separate left and right pages in a book fold publication; **False** if the same margin, row, and column guides are applied to all pages in the publication. Read/write.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MirrorGuides**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **LayoutGuides** object.


### Return Value

Boolean


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

When the  **MirrorGuides** property is **True**, margin settings apply to right-facing pages and are mirrored for left-facing pages. In addition, when set to  **True**, the  **MirrorGuides** property sets the publication to use two master pages instead of the default of one. The first master page is for all left-facing pages and the second is for all right-facing pages in the publication. For more information, see ** [MasterPages](3a7e6021-cbe4-4700-018c-c91d2f7d908a.md)**object.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets Publisher to create mirror guides for a book fold publication and sets the inside and outside margins of each two-page spread. The example sets the left and right margin values for right-facing pages, and Publisher mirrors these values for left-facing pages.


```
With ActiveDocument.LayoutGuides 
 .MirrorGuides = True 
 .MarginLeft = 48 
 .MarginRight = 96 
End With
```

