
# FindReplace.MatchWidth Property (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Sets or returns a  **Boolean** representing whether or not a search operation will match the character width of the searched text. Read/Write.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **MatchWidth**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **FindReplace** object.


### Return Value

Boolean


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

This property may not be available depending on the language enabled on your operating system. The default value is  **False**.

Return "Access denied" if an East Asian language is not enabled.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example finds each occurance of the word "width" in the active document and applies bold formatting. The  **MatchWidth** property is set to **False** so that full or half width characters will both be found. For example, this search will apply bold formatting to the word "width" (half-width characters) and the word " w i d t h" (full-width characters).


```
Dim objDocument As Document 
Set objDocument = ActiveDocument 
With objDocument.Find 
 .Clear 
 .FindText = "width" 
 .MatchWidth = False 
 Do While .Execute = True 
 .FoundTextRange.Font.Bold = msoTrue 
 Loop 
End With
```

The following example finds each occurance of the word "width" in the active document and applies bold formatting. The  **MatchWidth** property is set to **True** so that either full or half width characters will be found. For example, this search will apply bold formatting to "width". It will not apply formatting to the word "w i d t h".




```
Dim objDocument As Document 
Set objDocument = ActiveDocument 
With objDocument.Find 
 .Clear 
 .FindText = "width" 
 .MatchWidth = True 
 Do While .Execute = True 
 .FoundTextRange.Font.Bold = msoTrue 
 Loop 
End With
```

