
# WebPageOptions.PublishFileName Property (Publisher)

 **Last modified:** July 28, 2015

 **In this article**
 [Syntax](#sectionSection0)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection1)
 [Example](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets a  **String** that represents the file name of a Web page (within a Web publication) that is being saved as filtered HTML.


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

 _expression_. **PublishFileName**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  **WebPageOptions** object.


### Return Value

String


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

Specifying a file name for a Web page is optional. When a publication is saved as filtered HTML, Microsoft Publisher automatically generates a file name for any Web page that does not have a file name specified. Use the  ** [SaveAs](ba8b85d7-8ca9-dcf5-12b4-4cabced743e6.md)** method of the ** [Document](44f02255-ff5b-bcfe-900f-61c8fdf61ef3.md)** object to save a publication as filtered HTML.

User-defined file names are used only when a publication is saved as filtered HTML.

File names must be specified without a file name extension.

Including invalid characters (such as characters that are not universally allowed in file names that are part of URLs) in the file name generates a run-time error. Invalid characters include: 


-  characters with a code point value of below (decimal) 48
    
- any double-byte characters
    
- the following symbols: \, ?, >, <, |, : , and .
    


This property corresponds to the  **File name** text box in the **Publish to the Web** section of the **Web Page Options** dialog box.


## Example
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The following example sets the file name and description of the second page in the active publication. The example assumes the active publication is a Web publication containing at least two pages.


```
With ActiveDocument.Pages(2).WebPageOptions 
 .PublishFileName = "CompanyProfile" 
 .Description = "Tailspin Toys Company Profile" 
End With
```

